

236  BROOKE  GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
settled in  the mid-1980's,  the cigarette  companies  invested
substantial sums in promotional schemes, including coupons,
stickers, and giveaways, that reduced the actual cost of ciga-
rettes  to  consumers  below  list prices.  33  Tr. 206-209,  51
Tr. 130.  This promotional activity accelerated as the decade
progressed.  App. 509, 672.  Many wholesalers  also passed
portions  of their volume rebates on to the consumer, which
had the effect of further undermining the significance of the
retail list prices.  Id., at 672, 687-692, 761-763.  Especially
in  an oligopoly  setting, in which  price  competition  is most
likely to take place through less observable and less regula-
ble means than list prices, it would be unreasonable  to draw
conclusions  about the existence  of tacit coordination  or su-
pracompetitive pricing from data that reflect only list prices.
Even on its own terms, the list price data relied upon by
Liggett to demonstrate a narrowing of the price differential
between generic and full-priced branded cigarettes could not
support  the  conclusion  that  supracompetitive  pricing  had
been  introduced  into  the  generic  segment.  Liggett's  gap
data ignore the effect of "subgeneric" cigarettes, which were
priced  at discounts of 50% or  more  from the list prices  of
normal branded cigarettes.  See, e. g., id., at 682-686.  Lig-
gett  itself, while  supposedly  under the  sway  of oligopoly
power, pioneered this development in 1988 with the introduc-
tion of its "Pyramid"  brand.  Id.,  at 326.  By the time  of
trial, five of the six major manufacturers offered a cigarette
in this  category  at a  discount from the full list price  of at
least 50%.  Id., at 685-686; 147 Tr. 107.  Thus, the price dif-
ference  between  the highest priced  branded  cigarette  and
the lowest price cigarettes in the economy segment, instead
of narrowing over the course of the period of alleged preda-
tion as Liggett would argue, grew to a substantial  extent.
In June  1984,  before  Brown  & Williamson  entered  the ge-
neric segment, a consumer could obtain a carton of black and
white generic cigarettes from Liggett at a 38% discount from
the list price  of a leading brand; after the conduct  Liggett

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
complains of, consumers could obtain a branded generic from
Liggett for 52% off the list price of a leading brand.  See
App. 325-326, 685.
It may be that a reasonable jury could  conclude that the
cumulative  discounts  attributable  to  subgenerics  and  the
various consumer  promotions did not cancel out the full ef-
fect  of the increases  in list prices,  see id., at 508-509,  and
that actual prices to the consumer did indeed rise, but rising
prices  do not themselves permit an inference  of a  collusive
market dynamic.  Even in a concentrated market, the occur-
rence of a price increase does not in itself permit a rational
inference of conscious parallelism  or supracompetitive  pric-
ing.  Where, as here, output is expanding at the same time
prices  are  increasing,  rising prices  are  equally  consistent
with growing  product  demand.  Under these conditions, a
jury may not infer competitive injury from price and output
data absent some  evidence  that tends to prove  that output
was restricted or prices were above a competitive level.  Cf.
Monsanto, 465 U. S., at 763.
Quite apart from the absence of any evidence of that sort,
an  inference  of supracompetitive  pricing would  be particu-
larly anomalous  in  this  case, as  the very  party alleged  to
have been coerced into pricing through oligopolistic  coordi-
nation denied that such coordination  existed: Liggett's own
officers and directors consistently denied  that they or other
firms in  the industry  priced  their cigarettes  through  tacit
collusion or reaped supracompetitive  profits.  App. 394-399,
623-631;  11 Tr. 170-174, 64 Tr. 51-56.  Liggett seeks to ex-
plain  away  this testimony  by arguing that its  officers and
directors  are businesspeople  who do  not ascribe  the same
meaning to words like "competitive" and "collusion" that an
economist  would.  This  explanation  is entitled  to little,  if
any, weight.  As the District Court found:
"This  argument was  considered  at the summary judg-
ment  stage  since  these  executives  gave  basically  the
same testimony at their depositions.  The court allowed

NEW PAGE

238  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
the case to go to trial in part because the Liggett execu-
tives were not economists and in part because  of affida-
vits from the Liggett executives  stating that they were
confused by the questions asked by B[rown] & W[illiam-
son]  lawyers  and  did not mean to contradict  the testi-
mony of [their economic  expert] Burnett.  However, at
trial, despite having consulted extensively with Burnett
and having had adequate time to familiarize themselves
with  concepts  such  as  tacit  collusion,  oligopoly,  and
monopoly profits, these Liggett executives again contra-
dicted Burnett's theory."  748 F. Supp., at 356.
2
Not only does the evidence fail to show actual supracom-
petitive pricing in the generic segment, it also does not dem-
onstrate  its  likelihood.  At the time  Brown  & Williamson
entered  the  generic  segment,  the  cigarette  industry  as  a
whole faced declining demand and possessed  substantial ex-
cess  capacity.  App.  82-84.  These  circumstances  tend  to
break down patterns  of oligopoly pricing and produce price
competition.  See  Scherer  & Ross  294,  315;  2  Areeda  &
Turner  404b2,  at  275-276;  6  P.  Areeda,  Antitrust  Law
1430e, p. 181  (1986).  The  only means by which Brown  &
Williamson is alleged to have established oligopoly pricing in
the face  of these unusual  competitive  pressures is through
tacit price coordination  with the other cigarette firms.
Yet  the  situation  facing  the  cigarette  companies  in  the
1980's would have  made such  tacit coordination unmanage-
able.  Tacit  coordination  is  facilitated  by a  stable  market
environment, fungible products, and a small number of vari-
ables upon which the firms seeking to coordinate their pric-
ing may focus.  See generally Scherer & Ross 215-315; 6 P.
Areeda, supra,  1428-1430.  Uncertainty is an oligopoly's
greatest  enemy.  By  1984,  however,  the  cigarette  market
was in an obvious state of flux.  The introduction of generic
cigarettes  in  1980  represented  the first serious  price  com-

