

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion  of the Court.  361 U. S.
eral, for the State of Illinois; Starr Thomas, CarlE  . Bagge
and  Edwin A.  Lucas for the  Atchison,  Topeka & Santa
Fe Railway  Co. et al.; and Robert H. Walker for certain
municipalities and shippers et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE  WHITTAKER  delivered  the opinion of the
Court.
These  appeals  present  questions  arising  out of  rival
applications  by  several  rail  carriers  to  the  Interstate
Commerce  Commission  under  ยง 5 (2)  of  the  Interstate
Commerce Act .for authority to acquire control of Toledo,
Peoria & Western Railroad Company.
1 Section 5 (2)  of the Interstate Commerce  Act  (24  Stat. 380, as
amended,  54  Stat. 905, 49  U. S.  C. ยง 5 (2))  provides, in pertinent
part,  that:
"(a)  It  shall  be lawful,  with  the approval  and  authorization  of
the Commission, as provided in subdivision  (b)  of this paragraph-
"(i)  for  . . . two  or more  carriers  jointly, to  acquire  control  of
another through  ownership  of its stock  or otherwise  ....
"(b)  Whenever a transaction is proposed under subdivision  (a)  of
this paragraph, the carrier  . . . seeking authority therefor shall pre-
sent an application to the Commission, and thereupon the Commission
shall notify . . . [designated parties],  and shall afford reasonable op-
portunity for interested parties to be heard.  If the Commission shall
consider it necessary in order to determine whether the findings speci-
fied  below may  properly  be  made, it shall  set said application  for
public hearing;  and a public hearing shall be held in all cases where
carriers  by railroad  are involved  unless the Commission  determines
that a public hearing is not necessary in the public interest.  If the
Commission finds that, subject to such terms and conditions and such
modifications  as it shall find to be just and reasonable,  the proposed
transaction is within the scope of subdivision  (a)  of this paragraph
and will  be consistent with the public interest, it shall enter an order
approving  and  authorizing  such  transaction,  upon  the  terms  and
conditions,  and  with  the  modifications,  so  found  to  be  just  and
reasonable  . . ..
"(c)  In  passing upon any  proposed  transaction  under the provi-
sions  of  this paragraph,  the  Commission  shall  give  weight  to  the

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S. 177
173  Opinion  of the Court.
"Western"  is  an  independent,  short-line  "bridge  car-
rier"2  of  through  east-west  traffic  by-passing  the  con-
gested Chicago gateway.  Its line is about 234 miles long,
extending from its connection with the Pennsylvania Rail-
road Company  ("Pennsylvania")  at Effner,  on  the Illi-
nois-Indiana  state line, westward,  through  Peoria, to its
connection with the main line of the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Railway Company ("Santa Fe") at Lomax, Illi-
nois, and tl~ence southwesterly a short distance to Keokuk,
Iowa.  Its headquarters,  shops and yards are located in
East Peoria  where  it  has 24 executives  and where,  and
elsewhere along its line, it has about 225 other employees.
It  has connections  for the interchange of traffic  with 16
railroads, the principal ones being with the Pennsylvania
at Effner,-with the Santa Fe at Lonax, and with the New
York, Chicago  & St. Louis Railroad  Company  ("Nickel
Plate"),  the  Illinois  Terminal  Railroad  Company,  the
following  considerations,  among  others:  (1)  The  effect  of the  pro-
posed transaction upon adequate transportation service to the public:
(2)  the effect  upon the  public interest  of the inclusion,  or failure
to include, other railroads in the territory involved in the  proposed
transaction;  (3)  the total fixed  charges resulting from the proposed
transaction;  and  (4)  the interest  of the  carrier employees affected.
"(d)  The Commission  shall have authority  in the case of a pro-
posed transaction  under this paragraph  involving a railroad or rail-
roads, as a prerequisite  to its approval  of the proposed  transaction,
to  require,  upon  equitable terms,  the  inclusion  of  another  railroad
or  other railroads  in the  territory  involved,  upon  petition  by such
railroad  or  railroads  requesting  such  inclusion,  and  upon  a  finding
that such  inclusion is consistent  with  the public interest.
"f) As a condition  of its approval,  under this  paragraph, of any
transaction  involving a carrier or carriers by railroad subject  to the
provisions  of  this chapter,  the Commission shall  require  a  fair and
equitable  arrangement  to  protect the  interests of  the  railroad  em-
ployees affected.  . ....
2 The term  "bridge  carrier"  appears  to mean a  short-line  carrier
which transports through traffic from one long-line carrier to another.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of  the Court.  361 U. S.
Chicago,  Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company ("Bur-
lington")  and the Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway Com-
pany  ("Minneapolis")  at Peoria.  Its interchange  con-
nections with the other 10 railroads are at 17 other towns
along its line.
Western has outstanding 90,000 shares of common cap-
ital stock, 82%  of which  is owned by the  testamentary
trustees of the estate of George P. McNear-Wilmington
Trust  Company  and  Guy  Gladson-and  the remaining
18% is owned by members of the McNear family, a bank
and  the  president  of  Western.  In  1954,  the  trustees
determined  to sell  their Western  stock, and rival efforts
were commenced by Minneapolis, on the one hand, and by
the  Santa Fe  and  Pennsylvania,  on  the other hand,  to
purchase  it.  (Four  of  Wilmington  Trust  Company's
directors  were  also  directors  of  Pennsylvania.)  Those
negotiations  culminated in a contract  between  the trus-
tees and the Santa Fe, dated. May 26, 1955, providing for
the sale by  the former and purchase by the latter of the
stock at  a price  of $135  per share,  subject to the Com-
mission's  approval.'  Soon  afterward,  like  agreements
-During  the  negotiations,  Minneapolis  first  offered  $69.50,  and
later $80, per share  for the stock.  On April  15,  1955, the Santa Fe
and Pennsylvania each obtained letter commitments from the trustees
for the sale to each of them of 26% of the Western  stock at a price
of $100  per share.  (Near the same  time  the Rock  Island  made a
like offer to the trustees for 26% of the Western stock, but that offer
was not accepted.)  But a dispute arose-and apparently still exists
between the trustees and Pennsylvania-with  respect to the validity
of those  commitments.  Thereupon,  Minneapolis offered the trustees
$133  per share for the Western stock, but that offer was not accepted,
and on May 26, 1955, the Santa Fe, acting, as the Commission found,
"on  behalf  of that  carrier alone,"  agreed  with  the  trustees  for  the
sale  by  the  latter and  purchase  by  the former  of all  the Western
stock  held  by the trustees  at a price  of $135  per  share, and  those
parties on that date entered into a contract, accordingly, subject to
approval of the  Commission.

