546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
394  OCTOBER TERM, 2005 
Syllabus 
UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. SWIFT-

ECKRICH, INC., dba CONAGRA

REFRIGERATED FOODS

certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the federal circuit 
No. 04–597.  Argued November 2, 2005—Decided January 23, 2006 
After respondent ConAgra warned companies selling equipment and proc­
esses for browning precooked meats that it intended to protect its rights 
under its patent for that process, petitioner Unitherm, whose president 
had invented the process six years before ConAgra ﬁled its patent appli­
cation, and one of ConAgra’s direct competitors jointly ﬁled suit in an 
Oklahoma federal court.  As relevant here, they sought a declaration 
that ConAgra’s patent was invalid and unenforceable and alleged that 
ConAgra had violated § 2 of the Sherman Act by attempting to enforce 
a patent obtained by fraud on the Patent and Trademark Ofﬁce, see 
Walker Process Equipment, Inc. v. Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 
382 U. S. 172, 174.  The District Court found the patent invalid and 
allowed the Walker Process claim to proceed to trial.  Before the case 
was submitted to the jury, ConAgra moved for a directed verdict under 
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a) based on legal insufﬁciency of the 
evidence.  The court denied the motion, the jury returned a verdict for 
Unitherm, and ConAgra neither renewed its motion for judgment as a 
matter of law pursuant to Rule 50(b) nor moved for a new trial on anti­
trust liability pursuant to Rule 59.  On appeal to the Federal Circuit, 
ConAgra maintained that there was insufﬁcient evidence to sustain the 
Walker Process verdict.  The court applied Tenth Circuit law, under 
which a party that has failed to ﬁle a postverdict sufﬁciency of the evi­
dence challenge may nonetheless raise such a claim on appeal, so long 
as the party ﬁled a Rule 50(a) motion before submission of the case to 
the jury.  The only available relief in such a circumstance is a new trial. 
Freed to examine the sufﬁciency of the evidence, the Federal Circuit 
vacated the judgment and ordered a new trial. 
Held: Since respondent failed to renew its preverdict motion as speciﬁed 
in Rule 50(b), the Federal Circuit had no basis for reviewing respond­
ent’s sufﬁciency of the evidence challenge.  Rule 50 sets forth the re­
quirements, establishing two stages, for challenging the sufﬁciency of 
the evidence in a civil jury trial.  Rule 50(a) allows a challenge prior to 
the case’s submission to the jury, authorizing the district court to grant 
the motion at the court’s discretion.  Rule 50(b), by contrast, sets forth 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  395 
Syllabus 
the requirements for renewing the challenge after the jury verdict and 
entry of judgment.  A party’s failure to ﬁle a Rule 50(b) postverdict 
motion deprives an appellate court of the “power to direct the District 
Court to enter judgment contrary to the one it had permitted to stand.” 
Cone v. West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., 330 U. S. 212, 218.  It also 
deprives an appellate court of the power to order the entry of judgment 
in favor of that party where the district court directed the jury’s verdict, 
Globe Liquor Co. v. San Roman, 332 U. S. 571, and where the district 
court expressly reserved a party’s preverdict directed verdict motion 
and then denied it after the verdict, Johnson v. New York, N. H. & H. R. 
Co., 344 U. S. 48.  A postverdict motion is necessary because determin­
ing “whether a new trial should be granted or a judgment entered under 
Rule 50(b) calls for the judgment in the ﬁrst instance of the judge who 
saw and heard the witnesses and has the feel of the case which no appel­
late printed transcript can impart.”  Cone, supra, at 216.  Moreover, 
the requirement “is not an idle motion” but “an essential part of the 
rule, ﬁrmly grounded in principles of fairness.”  Johnson, supra, at 53. 
These authorities require reversal of the judgment below.  This Court’s 
observations about the postverdict motion’s necessity and the beneﬁts 
of the district court’s input at that stage apply with equal force whether 
a party is seeking judgment as a matter of law or simply a new trial. 
Contrary to respondent’s argument, the Cone, Globe Liquor, and John­
son outcomes underscore this holding.  Those litigants all secured new 
trials, but they had moved for a new trial postverdict in the district 
court and did not seek to establish their entitlement to a new trial based 
solely on a denied Rule 50(a) motion.  This result is further validated 
by the purported basis of respondent’s appeal, namely, the District 
Court’s denial of its Rule 50(a) motion.  Cone, Globe Liquor, and John­
son unequivocally establish that the precise subject matter of a party’s 
Rule 50(a) motion cannot be appealed unless that motion is renewed 
pursuant to Rule 50(b).  Respondent, rather than seeking to appeal the 
claim raised in its Rule 50(a) motion, seeks a new trial based on legal 
insufﬁciency of the evidence.  If a litigant that has failed to ﬁle a Rule 
50(b) motion is foreclosed from seeking the relief sought in its Rule 50(a) 
motion, then surely respondent is foreclosed from seeking relief it did 
not and could not seek in its preverdict motion.  Rule 50(b)’s text con­
ﬁrms that respondent’s Rule 50(a) motion did not give the District Court 
the option of ordering a new trial, for it provides that a district court 
may only order a new trial based on issues raised in a Rule 50(a) motion 
when “ruling on a renewed motion” under Rule 50(b).  If the District 
Court lacked such power, then the Court of Appeals was similarly pow­
erless.  Rule 50(a)’s text and application also support this result.  A 
district court may enter judgment as a matter of law when it concludes 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
396  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
that the evidence is legally insufﬁcient, but it is not required to do so. 
Thus, the denial of respondent’s Rule 50(a) motion was not error, but 
merely an exercise of the District Court’s discretion.  Pp. 399–407. 
375 F. 3d 1341, reversed. 
Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., 
and O’Connor, Scalia, Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined. 
Stevens, J., ﬁled a dissenting opinion, in which Kennedy, J., joined, 
post, p. 407. 
Burck Bailey argued the cause for petitioner.  With him 
on the briefs were Greg A. Castro, Jay P. Walters, and Den­
nis D. Brown. 
Malcolm  L.  Stewart  argued  the  cause  for  the  United 
States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With him on the 
brief were Solicitor General Clement, Assistant Attorney 
General Keisler, Deputy Solicitor  General Hungar, Mar­
leigh Dover, and August Flentje. 
Robert  A.  Schroeder  argued  the  cause  for  respondent. 
With him on the briefs were John R. Reese, Leigh Otsuka 
Curran, and John P. Passarelli. 
Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court. 
Ordinarily, a party in a civil jury trial that believes the 
evidence is legally insufﬁcient to support an adverse jury 
verdict will seek a judgment as a matter of law by ﬁling a 
motion pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a) 
before submission of the case to the jury, and then (if the 
Rule 50(a) motion is not granted and the jury subsequently 
decides against that party) a motion pursuant to Rule 50(b). 
In this case, however, the respondent ﬁled a Rule 50(a) mo­
tion before the verdict, but did not ﬁle a Rule 50(b) motion 
after the verdict.  Nor did respondent request a new trial 
under  Rule  59.  The  Court  of  Appeals  nevertheless  pro­
ceeded to review the sufﬁciency of the evidence and, upon a 
ﬁnding that the evidence was insufﬁcient, remanded the case 
for a new trial.  Because our cases addressing the require­
ments of Rule 50 compel a contrary result, we reverse. 

