

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
400  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
that party and may grant a motion for judgment as a 
matter of law against that party with respect to a claim 
or  defense  that  cannot  under  the  controlling  law  be 
maintained or defeated without a favorable ﬁnding on 
that issue. 
“(2) Motions for judgment as a matter of law may be 
made at any time before submission of the case to the 
jury.  Such a motion shall specify the judgment sought 
and the law and the facts on which the moving party is 
entitled to the judgment.” 
Rule 50(b), by contrast, sets forth the procedural require­
ments for renewing a sufﬁciency of the evidence challenge 
after the jury verdict and entry of judgment. 
“(b)  Renewing Motion for Judgment After 
Trial; Alternative Motion for New Trial.  If, for 
any reason, the court does not grant a motion for judg­
ment as a matter of law made at the close of all the 
evidence, the court is considered to have submitted the 
action to the jury subject to the court’s later deciding 
the legal questions raised by the motion.  The movant 
may renew its request for judgment as a matter of law 
by ﬁling a motion no later than 10 days after entry of 
judgment—and may alternatively request a new trial or 
join a motion for a new trial under Rule 59.  In ruling 
on a renewed motion, the court may: 
“(1) if a verdict was returned:

“(A) allow the judgment to stand,

“(B) order a new trial, or

“(C) direct entry of judgment as a matter of

law  . . . .”  
This Court has addressed the implications of a party’s fail­
ure to ﬁle a postverdict motion under Rule 50(b) on several 
occasions  and  in  a  variety  of  procedural  contexts.  This 
Court has concluded that, “[i]n the absence of such a motion” 
an “appellate court [is] without power to direct the District 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  401 
Opinion of the Court 
Court to enter judgment contrary to the one it had permitted 
to stand.”  Cone  v.  West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., 330 
U. S. 212, 218 (1947).  This Court has similarly concluded 
that a party’s failure to ﬁle a Rule 50(b) motion deprives the 
appellate court of the power to order the entry of judgment 
in favor of that party where the district court directed the 
jury’s verdict, Globe Liquor Co. v. San Roman, 332 U. S. 571 
(1948), and where the district court expressly reserved a par­
ty’s preverdict motion for a directed verdict and then denied 
that motion after the verdict was returned, Johnson v. New 
York,  N.  H. &  H. R. Co.,  344 U. S. 48 (1952).  A postverdict 
motion is necessary because “[d]etermination of whether a 
new trial should be granted or a judgment entered under 
Rule 50(b) calls for the judgment in the ﬁrst instance of the 
judge who saw and heard the witnesses and has the feel of 
the case which no appellate printed transcript can impart.” 3 
Cone, supra, at 216.  Moreover, the “requirement of a timely 
application for judgment after verdict is not an idle motion” 
because  it  “is  .  .  .  an  essential  part  of  the  rule,  ﬁrmly 
grounded in principles of fairness.”  Johnson, supra, at 53. 
The foregoing authorities lead us to reverse the judgment 
below.  Respondent correctly points out that these authori­
ties address whether an appellate court may enter judgment 
in the absence of a postverdict motion, as opposed to whether 
an appellate court may order a new trial (as the Federal Cir­
3 Neither Neely v. Martin K. Eby Constr. Co., 386 U. S. 317 (1967), nor 
Weisgram v. Marley Co., 528 U. S. 440 (2000), undermine our judgment 
about the beneﬁt of postverdict input from the district court.  In those 
cases this Court determined that an appellate court may, in certain cir­
cumstances, direct the entry of judgment when it reverses the district 
court’s denial of a Rule 50(b) motion.  But in such circumstances the dis­
trict court will have had an opportunity to consider the propriety of enter­
ing judgment or ordering a new trial by virtue of the postverdict motion. 
Moreover, these cases reiterate the value of the district court’s input, cau­
tioning the courts of appeals to be “ ‘constantly alert’ to ‘the trial judge’s 
ﬁrst-hand knowledge of witnesses, testimony, and issues.’”  Id., at 443 
(quoting Neely, supra, at 325). 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
402  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
cuit  did  here).  But  this  distinction  is  immaterial.  This 
Court’s observations about the necessity of a postverdict mo­
tion under Rule 50(b), and the beneﬁts of the district court’s 
input at that stage, apply with equal force whether a party 
is seeking judgment as a matter of law or simply a new trial. 
In Cone, this Court concluded that, because Rule 50(b) per­
mits the district court to exercise its discretion to choose 
between ordering a new trial and entering judgment, its “ap­
praisal of the bona ﬁdes of the claims asserted by the liti­
gants is of great value in reaching a conclusion as to whether 
a new trial should be granted.”  330 U. S., at 216 (emphasis 
added).  Similarly, this Court has determined that a party 
may only pursue on appeal a particular avenue of relief avail­
able under Rule 50(b), namely, the entry of judgment or a 
new trial, when that party has complied with the Rule’s ﬁl­
ing requirements by requesting that particular relief below. 
See Johnson, supra, at 54 (“Respondent made a motion to 
set aside the verdict and for new trial within the time re­
quired by Rule 50(b).  It failed to comply with permission 
given by 50(b) to move for judgment n. o. v. after the verdict. 
In this situation respondent is entitled only to a new trial, 
not to a judgment in its favor”).4 
4 The dissent’s suggestion that 28 U. S. C. § 2106 permits the courts of 
appeals to consider the sufﬁciency of the evidence underlying a civil jury 
verdict notwithstanding a party’s failure to comply with Rule 50 is fore­
closed by authority of this Court.  While the dissent observes that § 2106 
was enacted after Cone and Globe Liquor Co. v. San Roman, 332 U. S. 571 
(1948), post, at 408 (opinion of Stevens, J.), it fails to note that it was 
enacted prior to Johnson.  Johnson explicitly reafﬁrmed those earlier 
cases, concluding that “in the absence of a motion for judgment notwith­
standing the verdict made in the trial court within ten days after recep­
tion of a verdict [Rule 50] forbids the trial judge or an appellate court to 
enter such a judgment.”  344 U. S., at 50.  Moreover, in Neely, this Court 
observed that § 2106 is “broad enough to include the power to direct entry 
of judgment n. o. v. on appeal,” 386 U. S., at 322, but nonetheless reaf­
ﬁrmed that Cone, Globe Liquor, and Johnson “make it clear that an appel­
late  court  may  not  order  judgment  n.  o.  v.  where  the  verdict  loser 
has failed strictly to comply with the procedural requirements of Rule 

