

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
928  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
Tydings and McGuire Acts, “[n]o similar expression of con­
gressional  intent  exists  for  nonprice  restrictions.”  433 
U. S., at 51, n. 18.  Moreover, the Court decided Sylvania 
only a decade after Schwinn.  And it based its overruling 
on a generally perceived need to avoid “confusion” in the law, 
433 U. S., at 47–49, a factor totally absent here. 
The Court suggests that it is following “the common-law 
tradition.”  Ante, at 905.  But the common law would not 
have permitted overruling Dr. Miles in these circumstances. 
Common-law courts rarely overruled well-established earlier 
rules outright.  Rather, they would over time issue deci­
sions that gradually eroded the scope and effect of the rule 
in question, which might eventually lead the courts to put 
the rule to rest.  One can argue that modifying the per se 
rule to make an exception, say, for new entry, see Pitofsky 
1495, could prove consistent with this approach.  To swallow 
up a century-old precedent, potentially affecting many bil­
lions of dollars of sales, is not.  The reader should compare 
today’s “common-law” decision with Justice Cardozo’s deci­
sion  in  Allegheny  College  v.  National  Chautauqua  Cty. 
Bank of Jamestown, 246 N. Y. 369, 159 N. E. 173 (1927), and 
note a gradualism that does not characterize today’s decision. 
Moreover, a Court that rests its decision upon economists’ 
views of the economic merits should also take account of 
legal scholars’ views about common-law overruling.  Profes­
sors Hart and Sacks list 12 factors (similar to those I have 
mentioned) that support judicial “adherence to prior hold­
ings.”  They all support adherence to Dr. Miles here.  See 
H. Hart & A. Sacks, The Legal Process 568–569 (W. Esk­
ridge & P. Frickey eds. 1994).  Karl Llewellyn has written 
that the common-law judge’s “conscious reshaping” of prior 
law “must so move as to hold the degree of movement down 
to the degree to which need truly presses.”  The Bramble 
Bush 156 (1960).  Where here is the pressing need?  The 
Court notes that the FTC argues here in favor of a rule of 
reason.  See ante, at 900.  But both Congress and the FTC, 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  929 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
unlike courts, are well equipped to gather empirical evidence 
outside the context of a single case.  As neither has done 
so, we cannot conclude with conﬁdence that the gains from 
eliminating the per se rule will outweigh the costs. 
In sum, every stare decisis concern this Court has ever 
mentioned counsels against overruling here.  It is difﬁcult 
for  me  to  understand  how  one  can  believe  both  that 
(1) satisfying a set of stare decisis concerns justiﬁes over­
ruling a recent constitutional decision, Wisconsin Right to 
Life, Inc., ante, at 500–503 (Scalia, J., joined by Kennedy 
and Thomas, JJ., concurring in part and concurring in judg­
ment), but (2) failing to satisfy any of those same concerns 
nonetheless permits overruling a longstanding statutory de­
cision.  Either those concerns are relevant or they are not. 
* * * 
The only safe predictions to make about today’s decision 
are that it will likely raise the price of goods at retail and 
that  it  will  create  considerable  legal  turbulence  as  lower 
courts seek to develop workable principles.  I do not believe 
that the majority has shown new or changed conditions suf­
ﬁcient to warrant overruling a decision of such long standing. 
All ordinary stare decisis considerations indicate the con­
trary.  For these reasons, with respect, I dissent. 

NEW PAGE