

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
SOUTER, J., concurring in judgment
The majority concludes that, so long as the reinsurers' role
in this course of action  was limited  to "a  concerted agree-
ment  to  seek particular  terms  in  particular  transactions,"
post, at 801-802, the course of action could never constitute
a § 3(b) boycott.  The majority's emphasis on this conclusion
assumes  an  artificial  segmentation  of the course  of action,
and a false perception of the unimportance  of the elements
of that course of action other than the reinsurers' agreement.
The majority  concedes  that the complaints  allege, not just
implementation  of a horizontal  agreement,  but refusals  to
deal that occurred "at the behest of,"  or were "solicited by,"
the four primary insurers, who were "competitors of the tar-
of the primary insurer defendants.  I express no opinion as to whether
those acts, if they were indeed taken independently, could amount to § 3(b)
boycotts; but I note that they lack the key element on which I rely in this
litigation to find a sufficient allegation of boycott.
The Seventh Claim for Relief in the California Complaint, and the virtu-
ally identical Sixth Claim for Relief in the Connecticut Complaint, allege
a conspiracy  among a group of domestic  primary insurers, foreign rein-
surers, and the ISO to draft restrictive model forms and policy language
for "umbrella" and "excess" insurance.  On these claims, the Court of Ap-
peals reversed the District Court's order of dismissal as to the domestic
defendants solely because those defendants "act[ed] in concert" with non-
exempt foreign defendants, 938 F. 2d, at 931, relying on reasoning that the
Court has found to be in error, see supra, at 781-784.  The Court of Ap-
peals found that "[n]o  boycotts [were] alleged as the defendants'  modus
operandi in respect to [excess and umbrella] insurance."  938 F. 2d, at 930.
I agree; even under a liberal construction of the complaints in favor of
plaintiffs, I can find no allegation of any refusal to deal in connection with
the drafting  of the excess and umbrella insurance  language.  Therefore
I conclude that neither the participation of unregulated  parties nor the
application of § 3(b) furnished a basis to reverse the District Court's dis-
missal of these claims as against the domestic insurers, and I would re-
verse the judgment of the Court of Appeals in this respect.  The Fifth,
Sixth, and Eighth Claims for Relief in the California Complaint and the
Third, Fourth, and Fifth Claims for Relief in the Connecticut Complaint
also allege concerted refusals to deal; but because they do not name any
of the petitioners  in No. 91-1111, the Court has no occasion to consider
whether they allege § 3(b) boycotts.

NEW PAGE

792  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
SOUTER, J., concurring in judgment
get[s]."  Post, at 808 (citations and internal quotation marks
omitted).  But  it  fails  to  acknowledge  several  crucial  fea-
tures of these events that bind them into a  single course of
action recognizable as a § 3(b) boycott.
First, the allegation that the reinsurers acted at the behest
of the four primary insurers excludes the possibility that the
reinsurers  acted  entirely  in  their  own  independent  self-
interest, and would  have taken  exactly the same course  of
action without the intense efforts of the four primary insur-
ers.  Although the majority never explicitly posits such au-
tonomy on the part of the reinsurers, this would seem to be
the only point of its repeated emphasis on the fact that "the
scope and predictability of the  risks assumed  in a  reinsur-
ance contract depend entirely upon the terms of the primary
policies that are reinsured."  Ibid.  If the encouragement of
the four primary insurers played no  role in the reinsurers'
decision to act as they did, then it is difficult to see how one
could describe the reinsurers as acting at the behest of the
primary insurers, an element I find crucial to the § 3(b) boy-
cott alleged  here.  From the vantage  point of a ruling on
motions to dismiss, however, I discern sufficient allegations
in the complaints that this is not the case.  In addition, ac-
cording to  the complaints,  the four primary  insurers  were
not acting out of concern for the reinsurers' financial health
when they prompted the reinsurers to refuse reinsurance for
certain risks; rather, they simply wanted  to ensure that no
other primary insurer would be able to sell insurance policies
that they did  not want to  sell.  Finally, as  the complaints
portray the business of insurance, reinsurance  is a separate,
specialized  product, "[t]he  availability  [of which]  affects  the
ability and willingness of primary insurers to provide insur-
ance  to  their  customers."  App.  18  (Cal.  Complaint  34).
Thus, contrary to the majority's assertion, the boundary be-
tween the primary insurance industry  and the reinsurance
industry is not merely "technica[l]."  Post, at 808.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
SOUTER, J., concurring in judgment
The majority insists that I "disregar[d] th[e] integral rela-
tionship between the terms of the primary insurance  form
and the contract of reinsurance," post, at 807, a fact which it
seems to believe makes it impossible to draw any distinction
whatsoever between primary insurers and reinsurers.  Yet
it is the majority that fails to  see that, in spite  of such an
"integral relationship," the interests of primary insurer and
reinsurer will almost certainly differ in some cases.  For ex-
ample, the complaints allege that reinsurance contracts often
"layer"  risks, "in  the sense  that [a]  reinsurer may have to
respond only to claims above a certain amount.  .... "  App.
10 (Cal. Complaint  4.q); id., at 61 (Conn. Complaint  4(f)).
Thus, a primary insurer might be much more concerned than
its reinsurer about a risk that resulted in a high number of
relatively small claims.  Or the primary insurer might sim-
ply perceive a particular risk differently from the reinsurer.
The reinsurer might be indifferent as to whether a particular
risk was covered, so long as the reinsurance premiums were
adjusted  to  its  satisfaction,  whereas  the  primary  insurer
might decide  that the risk  was  "too  hot  to handle,"  on  a
standardized  basis, at any cost.  The  majority's  suggestion
that "to  insist  upon  certain  primary-insurance  terms  as  a
condition  of writing  reinsurance  is  in no  way  'artificial,"'
post, at 808; see post, at 806, simply ignores these possibil-
ities; the conditions  could quite easily be "artificial,"  in the
sense that they are not motivated by the interests of the rein-
surers themselves.  Because the parties have had no chance
to flesh out the facts of this case, because I have no a priori
knowledge of those facts, and because  I do not believe I can
locate them in the pages of insurance treatises, I would not
rule out these possibilities on a motion to dismiss.
Believing that there is no other principled way to narrow
the § 3(b) exception, the majority decides that "boycott" en-
compasses just those refusals to deal that are "unrelated" or
"collateral" to the objective sought by those refusing to deal.
Post, at 803.  This designation of a single "'unitary phenom-

