

SPECTRUM SPORTS, INC. v. McQUILLAN
Opinion of the Court
was  selected  as  distributor  for  another  region.  Id.,  at
A4-A5.
In January 1982, Hamilton-Kent shifted responsibility for
selling medical products from five regional distributors to a
single  national  distributor.  In  April  1982,  Hamilton-Kent
told respondents  that it wanted them to relinquish their ath-
letic  shoe  distributorship  as  a  condition  for  retaining  the
right to develop  and distribute  equestrian products.  As of
May  1982,  BTR  had  moved  the  sorbothane  business  from
Hamilton-Kent  to S. I.  Id., at A6.  In May, the marketing
manager  of S.  I.  again made clear that respondents  had to
sell  their  athletic  distributorship  to  keep  their equestrian
distribution  rights.  At a meeting scheduled to discuss  the
sale  of  respondents'  athletic  distributorship  to  petitioner
Leighton, Jr., Leighton, Jr., informed Shirley McQuillan  that
if she did  not come  to  agreement  with  him she  would  be
"'looking  for work."'  Id., at A6.  Respondents  refused  to
sell and continued to distribute athletic shoe inserts.
In  the fall  of  1982,  Leighton,  Sr.,  informed  respondents
that  another  concern  had  been  appointed  as  the  national
equestrian  distributor,  and  that  they  were  "no  longer in-
volved  in  equestrian  products."  Id.,  at  A7.  In  January
1983, S.  I. began marketing through a national distributor a
sorbothane  horseshoe  pad  allegedly  indistinguishable  from
the  one  designed  by  respondents.  Ibid.  In  August  1983,
S.  I.  informed  respondents  that  it would  no  longer  accept
their orders.  Ibid.  Spectrum  thereupon  became  national
distributor  of  sorbothane  athletic  shoe  inserts.  Pet.  for
Cert. 6.  Respondents  sought to obtain sorbothane from the
BTR's British subsidiary, but were informed by that subsid-
iary that it would not sell sorbothane in the United States.
Respondents'  business failed.  App. to Pet. for Cert. A8.
Respondents sued petitioners seeking damages for alleged
violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 506 U. S. 447 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
and 2,2  § 3 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 731,  15 U. S. C. § 14,
the  Racketeer  Influenced  and  Corrupt  Organizations  Act
(RICO),  18  U. S. C.  § 1962, and  two provisions  of California
business law.  Respondents also alleged fraud, breach of oral
contract, interference  with prospective business advantage,
bad-faith  denial  of the  existence  of an  oral  contract,  and
conversion.
The  case  was  tried to  a jury, which  returned  a  verdict
against one or more of the defendants  on each of the 11  al-
leged violations on which it was to return a verdict.  All of
the defendants  were  found  to have  violated  §2 by, in  the
words of the verdict sheet, "monopolizing, attempting to mo-
nopolize, and/or conspiring to monopolize."  App. 410.  Peti-
tioners were also found to have violated civil RICO and the
California  unfair practices  law, but not  § 1 of the Sherman
Act.  The jury awarded $1,743,000  in compensatory damages
on  each  of  the  violations  found  to  have  occurred.3   This
amount was trebled under § 4 of the Clayton Act.  The Dis-
trict Court also awarded nearly $1 million in attorney's fees
and denied  motions  for judgment notwithstanding  the ver-
dict and for a new trial.
2 Two violations of § 1 were alleged, resale price maintenance and divi-
sion of territories.  Attempted monopolization, monopolization,  and con-
spiracy to  monopolize  were charged under  § 2.  All in  all, four alleged
violations of federal  law and seven alleged violations of state law were
sent to the jury.
' The special verdict form advised the jury as follows:
"The following pages identify the name of each defendant and the claims
for which plaintiffs contend that the defendant is liable.  If you find that
any of the defendants  are liable  on any of the  claims, you may  award
damages to the plaintiffs against those defendants.  Should you decide to
award damages, please assess damages for each defendant and each claim
separately and without regard to whether you have already awarded the
same damages on another claim or against another defendant.  The court
will insure that there is no double recovery.  The verdict will not be to-
taled."  App. 416.

NEW PAGE

SPECTRUM SPORTS, INC. v. McQUILLAN
Opinion of the Court
The  Court of Appeals for the  Ninth Circuit affirmed  the
judgment in an unpublished opinion.  Judgt. order reported
at 907 F. 2d  154 (1990).  The court expressly ruled that the
trial court had properly instructed the jury on the Sherman
Act claims and found that the evidence supported the liabil-
ity verdicts as well as the damages  awards on these claims.
The court then affirmed the judgment of the District Court,
finding  it unnecessary  to rule on challenges  to other viola-
tions found by the jury.  App. to Pet. for Cert. A28.  On the
§ 2 issue that petitioners present here, the Court of Appeals,
noting that the jury had found that petitioners had violated
§ 2  without  specifying  whether  they  had  monopolized,  at-
tempted to monopolize, or conspired to monopolize, held that
the verdict would stand if the evidence supported any one of
the three possible violations of § 2.  Id., at A15.  The court
went on to conclude that a case of attempted monopolization
had been established.4   The court rejected petitioners' argu-
ment  that  attempted  monopolization  had  not  been  estab-
lished because respondents had failed to prove that petition-
ers had  a specific  intent  to  monopolize  a relevant  market.
The court also held that in order to show that respondents'
4T he District Court's jury instructions were transcribed as follows:
"In order to win on the claim of attempted monopoly, the Plaintiff must
prove each of the following elements by a preponderance of the evidence:
first, that the Defendants had a specific intent to achieve monopoly power
in the relevant market; second, that the Defendants engaged in exclusion-
ary or restrictive conduct in furtherance of its specific intent; third, that
there was a dangerous probability that Defendants could sooner or later
achieve [their] goal of monopoly power in the relevant market; fourth, that
the Defendants' conduct occurred in or affected interstate commerce; and,
fifth, that the  Plaintiff was injured  in the business or property by the
Defendants' exclusionary or restrictive conduct.
"If the Plaintiff has shown  that the  Defendant engaged  in predatory
conduct, you may infer from that evidence the specific intent and the dan-
gerous probability element of the offense without any proof of the relevant
market or the Defendants' marketing [sic] power."  Id., at 251-252.  See
also App. to Pet. for Cert. A16, A20.

