

770  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
munized from antitrust liability by the McCarran-Ferguson
Act, and that, even assuming it applies, the principle of inter-
national comity does not preclude District Court jurisdiction
over the foreign conduct alleged.
The two petitions before us stem from consolidated litiga-
tion comprising the complaints of 19 States and many private
plaintiffs alleging that the defendants, members of the insur-
ance  industry, conspired  in violation  of ยง 1 of the Sherman
Act to restrict the terms of coverage of commercial general
liability (CGL) insurance 1a vailable in the United States.  Be-
cause  the cases come  to us on motions to dismiss,  we take
the allegations of the complaints as true.2
A
According to the complaints, the object of the conspiracies
was to force certain primary insurers (insurers who sell in-
surance  directly to consumers) to change the terms of their
'CGL  insurance  provides  "coverage  for third  party casualty  damage
claims  against a  purchaser of insurance  (the 'insured')."  App.  8 (Cal.
Complaint  4.a).
2 Following  the lower courts and the parties, see In re Insurance Anti-
trust Litigation, 938 F. 2d 919, 924, 925 (CA9  1991),  we will treat the
complaint filed by California as representative  of the claims of Alabama,
Arizona, California, Massachusetts, New York, West Virginia, and Wiscon-
sin, and the complaint filed by Connecticut as representative of the claims
of Alaska, Colorado, Connecticut, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minne-
sota, Montana, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and 'Washington.  As will
become  apparent,  the  California  and  Connecticut  Complaints  differ
slightly in their presentations of background information and their claims
for relief;  their statements of facts  are identical.  Because the private
party plaintiffs have chosen in their brief in this Court to use the Califor-
nia Complaint as a "representative model" of their claims, Brief for Re-
spondents (Private Party Plaintiffs) 3, n. 6, we will assume that their com-
plaints track that complaint.  On remand, the courts below will of course
be free to take into account any relevant differences among the complaints
that the parties may bring to their attention.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
standard CGL insurance policies to conform with the policies
the  defendant  insurers  wanted  to  sell.  The  defendants
wanted four changes.3
First, CGL  insurance  has  traditionally  been  sold  in  the
United States on an "occurrence" basis, through a policy obli-
gating the insurer "to pay or defend claims, whenever made,
resulting from an accident  or 'injurious exposure  to  condi-
tions' that occurred during the [specific time] period the pol-
icy was in effect."  App. 22 (Cal. Complaint  52).  In place
of this traditional  "occurrence"  trigger of coverage, the de-
fendants wanted a "claims-made"  trigger, obligating the in-
surer to  pay or defend  only those  claims made during the
policy period.  Such a policy has the distinct advantage for
the insurer that when the policy period ends without a claim
having been made, the insurer can be certain that the policy
will not expose it to any  further liability.  Second,  the de-
fendants wanted the "claims-made" policy to have a "retroac-
tive date" provision, which would further restrict coverage
to claims  based  on incidents  that occurred  after a  certain
date.  Such a provision eliminates the risk that an insurer,
by issuing a claims-made policy, would assume liability aris-
ing from incidents that occurred before  the policy's effective
date,  but  remained  undiscovered  or  caused  no  immediate
harm.  Third,  CGL  insurance  has  traditionally  covered
"sudden and accidental" pollution; the defendants  wanted to
eliminate that coverage.  Finally, CGL insurance has tradi-
tionally provided that the insurer would bear the legal costs
of defending covered  claims against the insured without re-
gard to the policy's stated limits of coverage; the defendants
8The First Claim for Relief in the Connecticut Complaint, App. 88-90
(  115-119), charges all the defendants with an overarching conspiracy to
force  all  four  of these  changes  on  the  insurance  market.  The  eight
federal-law Claims for Relief in the California Complaint, id., at 36-49
(1  111-150), charge  various  subgroups  of the defendants  with separate
conspiracies that had more limited objects; not all of the defendants  are
alleged to have desired all four changes.

NEW PAGE

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
wanted legal defense  costs to be counted against the stated
limits (providing a "legal defense cost cap").
To  understand  how  the  defendants  are  alleged  to  have
pressured  the  targeted  primary  insurers  to  make  these
changes, one must be aware of two important features of the
insurance  industry.  First, most  primary insurers  rely  on
certain  outside  support  services  for the type  of insurance
coverage  they wish to  sell.  Defendant  Insurance Services
Office,  Inc. (ISO),  an association of approximately  1,400 do-
mestic property and casualty insurers (including the primary
insurer defendants,  Hartford Fire Insurance Company, All-
state  Insurance  Company, CIGNA  Corporation,  and Aetna
Casualty  and  Surety  Company),  is  the  almost  exclusive
source of support services in this country for CGL insurance.
See id., at 19 (Cal. Complaint 138).  ISO develops standard
policy forms and files or lodges them with each State's insur-
ance regulators; most CGL insurance written in the United
States  is  written  on  these  forms.  Ibid. (Cal.  Complaint
139); id., at 74  (Conn. Complaint  150).  All  of the "tradi-
tional" features of CGL insurance relevant to this litigation
were embodied in the ISO standard CGL insurance form that
had been in use since 1973 (1973  ISO CGL form).  Id., at 22
(Cal. Complaint  1 51-54); id., at 75 (Conn. Complaint 11 56-
58).  For each of its standard policy forms, ISO also supplies
actuarial and rating information:  it collects, aggregates, in-
terprets,  and  distributes  data  on  the  premiums  charged,
claims filed  and paid,  and defense  costs  expended  with re-
spect to each form, id., at 19 (Cal. Complaint 1 39); id., at 74
(Conn. Complaint  151-52), and on the basis of these data it
predicts future loss trends and calculates advisory premium
rates, id., at 19 (Cal. Complaint 139); id., at 74 (Conn. Com-
plaint 153).  Most ISO  members  cannot afford  to  continue
to use a form if ISO withdraws these support services.  See
id., at 32-33 (Cal. Complaint IT 97, 99).
Second, primary insurers themselves usually purchase in-
surance to cover a portion of the risk they assume from the

