

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 167 
Opinion of the Court 
intended that result." P. Areda & H. Hovenkamp, An-
titrust Law 1273, p. 51-52 (Sup. 203). 
We agre with the comenent. We can find no convincing jus-
tification for the extension of the Sherman Act's scope that 
it describes. 
Respondents reply that many nations have adopted anti-
trust laws similar to our own, to the point where the practi-
cal likelihihod of interference with the relevant interests of 
other nations is minimal. Leaving price fixing to the side, 
however, this Court has found to the contrary. Se, e. g., 
Hartford Fire, , 509 U. S., at 797-79 (noting that the aleged 
conduct in the London reinsurance market, while ilegal 
under United States antitrust laws, was asumed to be per-
fectly consistent with British law and policy); se also, e. g., 
2 W. Fugate, Foreign Comerce and the Antititrust Laws 
§ 1 6.6 (5th ed. 196) (noting diferences betwen European 
Union and United States law on vertical restraints). 
Regardles, even where nations agre about primary con-
duct, say, price fixing, they disagre dramaticaly about ap-
propriate remedies. The aplication, for example, of Amer-
ican private treble-d-damages remedies to anticompetitive 
conduct taking place abroad has generated considerable con-
troversy. Se, e. g., 2 A BA Section of Antitrust Law, Anti-
trust Law Developments 1208-1209 (5th ed. 202). And sev-
eral foreign nations have filed briefs here arguing that to 
aply our remedies would unjustifiably permit their citizens 
to bypas their own les generous remedial schemes, thereby 
upseting a b balance of competing considerations that their 
own domestic antitrust laws embody. E. g g., Brief for Gov-
ernment of Federal Republic of Germany et al. as Amici Cu-
riae 2 (seting forth German interest "in seing that German
riae 2( seting forth German interest "in seing that German 
companies are not subject to the extrateritorial reach of the 
United States' antitrust laws by private foreign plaintifsf-s— 
whose injuries were sustained in transactions entirely out-
side United States comerecrce—-seking treble damages in 
private lawsuits against German companieies"); Brief for Gov-

NEW PAGE

168 F. H OFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A . 
Opinion of the Court 
ernment of Canada as Amicus Curiae 14 ("treble damages 
remedy would supersede" Canada's "national policy deci-
sion"); Brief for Government of Japan as Amicus Curiae 10 
(finding "particularly troublesome" the potential "interfer-
e[nce] with Japanese governmental regulation of the Japa-
nese market"t"). 
These briefs ad that a d ecision permiting independently 
injured foreign plaintifs to pursue private treble-d-admamages 
remedies would undermine foreign nations' own antitrust en-
forcement policies by diminishing foreign firms' incentive to 
coperate with antitrust authorities in return for prosecuto-
rial amnesty. Brief for Government of Federal Republic of 
Germany et al. as Amici Curiae 28-30; Brief for Govern-
ment of Canada as Amicus Curiae 1-14. Se also Brief for 
United States as Amicus Curiae 19-21 (arguing the same in 
respect to American antitrust enforcement). 
Respondents alternatively argue that comity does not de-
mand an interpretation of the FTAIA that would exclude 
independent foreign injury cases acros the board. . Rather, 
courts can take (and sometimes have taken) acount of com-
ity considerations case by case, abstaining where comity con-
siderations so dictate. Cf., e. g., Hartford Fire, supra, , at 
797, n. 24; United States v. Nipon Paper Industries Co., 109 
F. 3d 1, 8 ( CA1 197); Manington Milils, Inc. v. Congoleum 
Corp., 595 F. 2d 1287, 1294-1295 (CA3 1979). 
In our view, however, this aproach is to complex to 
prove workable. The Sherman Act covers many diferent 
kinds of anticompetitive agrements. Courts would have to 
examine how foreign law, compared with American law, 
treats not only price fixing but also, say, information-sharing 
agrements, patent-licensing price conditions, teritorial 
product resale limitations, and various forms of joint ven-
ture, in respect to both primary conduct and remedy. The 
legaly and economicaly technical nature of that enterprise 
means lengthier procedings, apeals, and more proced-
ings—-to the point where procedural costs and delays could 

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 169 
Opinion of the Court 
themselves threaten interference with a foreign nation's 
ability to maintain the integrity of its own antitrust enforce-
ment system. Even in this relatively simple price-fixing 
case, for example, competing briefs tel us (1) that potential 
treble-d-admamages liability would help enforce widespread anti-
price-fixing norms (through aded deterence) and (2) the 
oposite, namely, that such liability would hinder antitrust 
enforcement (by reducing incentives to enter amnesty pro-
grams). Compare, e. g., Brief for Certain Profesors of Eco-
nomics as Amici Curiae 2-4 with Brief for United States as 
Amicus Curiae 19-21. How could a c ourt seriously inter-
ested in resolving so empirirical a mater—-a mater poten-
tialy related to impact on foreign interests-—do so simply 
and expeditiously? 
We conclude that principles of prescriptive comity counsel 
against the Court of Apeals' interpretation of the FTAIA. 
Where foreign anticompetitive conduct plays a significant 
role and where foreign injury is independent of domestic ef-
fects, Congres might have hoped that Amereirica's antitrust 
laws, so fundamental a c omponent of our own economic sys-
tem, would comend themselves to other nations as wel. 
But, if Amereirica's antitrust policies could not win their own 
way in the international marketplace for such ideas, Con-
gres, we must asume, would not have tried to impose them, 
in an act of legal imperialism, through legislative fiat. 
Second, the FTAIA's language and history sugest that 
Congres designed the FTAIA to clarify, perhaps to limit, 
but not to expand in any significant way, the Sherman Act's 
scope as aplied to foreign comerecrce. Se House Report, 
at 2-3. And we have found no significant indication that at 
the time Congres wrote this statute courts would have 
thought the Sherman Act aplicable in these circumstances. 
The Solicitor General and petitioners tel us that they have 
found no case in which any court aplied the Sherman Act 
to redres foreign injury in such circumstances. Tr. of Oral 
Arg. 21; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 13; Brief 

