

164  CEDRIC KUSHNER  PROMOTIONS,  LTD. v. KING
Opinion of the Court
We note that the Second  Circuit relied on earlier Circuit
precedent  for  its  decision.  But  that  precedent  involved
quite different  circumstances which are not presented here.
This case concerns a claim that a corporate  employee is the
"person" and the corporation is the "enterprise."  It is natu-
ral to speak of a corporate employee  as a "person employed
by" the corporation.  § 1962(c).  The earlier Second Circuit
precedent concerned a claim that a corporation was the "per-
son" and the corporation, together with all its employees and
agents, were the "enterprise."  See Riverwoods Chappaqua
Corp. v. Marine Midland Bank, N. A.,  30 F. 3d  339,  344
(1994)  (affirming dismissal of complaint).  It is less natural
to  speak  of a  corporation  as "employed  by" or  "associated
with" this latter oddly constructed entity.  And the Second
Circuit's other precedent also involved significantly different
allegations  compared  with the  instant case.  See Anatian
v. Coutts Bank  (Switzerland) Ltd.,  193  F. 3d 85, 89 (1999)
(affirming dismissal where plaintiff alleged  that same  bank
was both "person" and "enterprise"), cert. denied, 528 U. S.
1188  (2000);  Discon, Inc. v. NYNEX  Corp., 93  F. 3d  1055,
1064 (1996) (involving complaint alleging that corporate sub-
sidiaries were "persons" and subsidiaries, taken together as
parent,  were  "enterprise"), vacated  on  other grounds,  525
U. S.  128  (1998);  Bennett, supra, at 315, and n. 2 (same as
Anatian).  We  do  not  here  consider  the  merits  of these
cases, and note only their distinction  from the instant case.
Further, to  apply  the  RICO  statute  in  present  circum-
stances is consistent with the statute's basic purposes as this
Court  has  defined  them.  The  Court  has  held  that  RICO
both  protects  a  legitimate  "enterprise"  from  those  who
would use unlawful acts to victimize it, United States v. Tur-
kette, 452 U. S.  576, 591 (1981),  and also protects the public
from  those  who  would  unlawfully  use  an  "enterprise"
(whether legitimate  or illegitimate)  as  a "vehicle"  through
which  "unlawful  . . . activity  is  committed,"  National
Organizationf or Women, Inc., supra, at 259.  A corporate

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 533 U. S. 158 (2001)
Opinion of the Court
employee who conducts the corporation's  affairs through an
unlawful RICO "pattern...  of activity,"  § 1962(c), uses that
corporation  as a "vehicle" whether  he is, or is not, its sole
owner.
Conversely, the appellate court's critical legal distinction-
between employees acting within the scope of corporate  au-
thority and those acting outside that authority-is inconsist-
ent with a basic statutory purpose.  Cf. Reves, supra, at 184
(stating that an enterprise  is "'operated,'"  within § 1962(c)'s
meaning, "not just by upper management but also by lower
rung participants in the enterprise who are under the direc-
tion of upper management" (emphasis  added)).  It  would
immunize  from RICO liability many of those  at whom this
Court has said RICO directly aims-e. g., high-ranking indi-
viduals  in an illegitimate  criminal  enterprise, who, seeking
to further  the purposes  of that  enterprise, act  within  the
scope of their authority.  Cf. Turkette, supra, at 581  (Con-
gress "did nothing to indicate that an enterprise  consisting
of a  group of individuals  was not covered  by  RICO if the
purpose of the enterprise was exclusively criminal").
Finally, we have found nothing in the statute's history that
significantly favors an alternative interpretation.  That his-
tory not only refers frequently to the importance  of under-
mining  organized  crime's  influence  upon  legitimate  busi-
nesses but also refers to the need to protect the public from
those who would run "organization[s]  in a manner detrimen-
tal to the public interest."  S. Rep. No. 91-617, at 82.  This
latter purpose, as we have said, invites the legal principle we
endorse, namely, that in present  circumstances  the statute
requires no more  than the formal legal distinction  between
"person"  and  "enterprise"  (namely, incorporation)  that  is
present here.
In reply, King argues that the lower court's rule is consist-
ent  with  (1)  the  principle  that  a  corporation  acts  only
through its directors, officers, and agents, 1 Fletcher, supra,
§ 30, (2) the principle that a corporation should not be liable

NEW PAGE

166  CEDRIC  KUSHNER  PROMOTIONS,  LTD. v. KING
Opinion of the Court
for the criminal acts of its employees where Congress so in-
tends, Brief for Respondents 20-21, and (3) the Sherman Act
principle limiting liability under 15  U. S. C. § 1 by excluding
"from  unlawful  combinations  or conspiracies  the activities
of a  single  firm,"  Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube
Corp., 467 U. S. 752,  769-770, n. 15  (1984).  The alternative
that we endorse, however, is no  less consistent  with these
principles.  It does not deny that a corporation acts through
its employees;  it says only that the corporation  and its em-
ployees  are  not  legally  identical.  It  does  not  assert that
ordinary respondeat superior principles make a corporation
legally liable under RICO for the criminal acts of its employ-
ees; that is a matter of congressional intent not before  us.
See, e. g.,  Gasoline Sales, Inc., 39 F. 3d, at 73 (holding that
corporation cannot be "vicariously liable" for § 1962(c) viola-
tions committed by its vice president).  Neither is it incon-
sistent  with antitrust  law's  intracorporate  conspiracy  doc-
trine;  that  doctrine  turns  on  specific  antitrust  objectives.
See Copperweld Corp., supra, at 770-771.  Rather, we hold
simply  that  the need  for two  distinct  entities  is  satisfied;
hence, the RICO provision before us applies when a corpo-
rate employee unlawfully conducts the affairs of the corpora-
tion  of which  he  is  the  sole  owner-whether  he  conducts
those affairs within the scope, or beyond the scope, of corpo-
rate authority.
For these reasons, the Court of Appeals' judgment is re-
versed,  and  the case  is remanded  for  further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

