

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
trust laws by § 2(b)," id., at 129 (emphasis added), and each
of the three criteria we identified concerned a quality of the
practice  in question:  "first, whether the practice has the ef-
fect of transferring  or spreading a policyholder's  risk; sec-
ond, whether the practice  is  an integral  part of the policy
relationship between the insurer and the insured; and third,
whether the practice is limited to entities within the insur-
ance industry," ibid. (emphasis in original).
The Court of Appeals did not hold that, under these crite-
ria, the domestic defendants' conduct fell outside "the busi-
ness of insurance"; to the contrary, it held that that condition
was met.10   See 938 F. 2d, at 927.  Nor did it hold the do-
mestic  defendants'  conduct  to be  "[un]regulated  by  State
Law."  Rather, it constructed  an altogether different chain
of reasoning, the middle link of which comes from a sentence
in our opinion in Royal Drug Co.  "[R]egulation  ...o f for-
eign reinsurers," the Court of Appeals explained, "is beyond
the jurisdiction of the states," 938 F. 2d, at 928, and hence
§ 2(b) does not exempt foreign reinsurers from antitrust lia-
bility, because  their activities  are not "regulated  by  State
Law."  Under Royal Drug Co.,  "an  exempt  entity forfeits
antitrust  exemption by  acting  in  concert  with  nonexempt
parties."  440 U. S.,  at 231.  Therefore, the domestic insur-
ers, by acting in concert with the nonexempt foreign insur-
ers, lost their McCarran-Ferguson  Act antitrust  immunity.
See 938 F. 2d, at 928.  This reasoning fails, however, because
even if we were to agree that foreign reinsurers were  not
subject  to  state  regulation  (a point  on  which  we  express
no opinion), the quoted language from Royal Drug Co., read
10Th e activities in question here, of course, are alleged to violate federal
law, and it might be tempting to think that unlawful acts are implicitly
excluded from "the business of insurance."  Yet § 2(b)'s grant of immunity
assumes that acts which, but for that grant, would violate the Sherman
Act, the Clayton Act, or the Federal Trade Commission Act, are part of
"the business of insurance."

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
in  context,  does  not  state a  proposition  applicable  to this
litigation.
The full sentence  from Royal Drug Co. places the quoted
fragment in a different light.  "In analogous  contexts,"  we
stated,  "the Court has held  that an  exempt entity forfeits
antitrust  exemption by  acting  in  concert  with  nonexempt
parties."  440 U. S.,  at 231.  We  then cited two cases deal-
ing with  the  Capper-Volstead  Act,  which  immunizes  from
liability under § 1 of the Sherman  Act  particular activities
of certain  persons  "engaged  in  the  production  of agricul-
tural products.""  Capper-Volstead  Act, § 1, 42 Stat. 388, 7
U. S. C. § 291; see Case-Swayne Co. v. Sunkist Growers, Inc.,
389  U. S. 384  (1967);  United States v. Borden Co., 308  U. S.
188  (1939).  Because  these  cases  relied  on  statutory  lan-
guage  referring  to  certain  "persons,"  whereas  we  specifi-
cally  acknowledged  in Royal Drug Co. that the McCarran-
Ferguson Act immunizes activities rather than entities, see
440 U. S., at 232-233,  the analogy we were drawing was of
course a loose one.  The agreements that insurance  compa-
nies made with "parties wholly outside the insurance indus-
try,"  id., at 231,  we noted,  such  as  the retail pharmacists
involved in Royal Drug Co. itself, or "automobile body repair
shops or landlords,"  id., at 232  (footnote omitted),  are  un-
"We  also cited two cases dealing with the immunity of certain agree-
ments of labor unions under the Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia Acts.  See
440  U. S.,  at 231-232.  These  cases,  however,  did  not hold  that  labor
unions lose their immunity whenever  they  enter into agreements  with
employers; to the contrary, we acknowledged in one of the cases that "the
law contemplates agreements on wages not only between individual em-
ployers and a union but agreements between the union and employers in
a multi-employer  bargaining  unit."  Mine  Workers v. Pennington, 381
U. S. 657, 664 (1965).  Because the cases stand only for the proposition
that labor unions are not immune from antitrust liability for certain types
of agreements with employers, such as agreements "to impose a certain
wage scale on other bargaining units," id., at 665, they do not support the
far more general statement that exempt entities lose immunity by conspir-
ing with nonexempt entities.

NEW PAGE

784  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
SOUTER, J., concurring in judgment
likely to be about anything that could be called "the business
of insurance,"  as distinct from the broader "'business  of in-
surance  companies,"'  id., at 233.  The  alleged agreements
at issue in the instant litigation, of course, are entirely differ-
ent; the  foreign reinsurers  are hardly  "wholly  outside  the
insurance  industry,"  and  respondents  do  not  contest  the
Court of Appeals's holding that the agreements concern "the
business  of insurance."  These  facts  neither  support  even
the rough analogy we drew in Royal Drug Co. nor fall within
the  rule  about  acting  in  concert  with  nonexempt  parties,
which  derived  from a  statute inapplicable  here.  Thus, we
think it was  error for the Court of Appeals to hold  the do-
mestic insurers bereft of their McCarran-Ferguson  Act ex-
emption  simply because  they agreed  or acted  with foreign
reinsurers  that, we  assume for the sake of argument, were
"not regulated  by State Law." 12
B
That the domestic defendants  did not lose their § 2(b) ex-
emption by acting together with foreign reinsurers, however,
is not  enough reason to  reinstate  the  District Court's  dis-
missal order, for the Court of Appeals reversed  that order
on two independent  grounds.  Even  if the  participation  of
foreign  reinsurers  did not  affect  the §2(b) exemption,  the
Court of Appeals held, the agreements and acts alleged by
the plaintiffs constitute "agreement[s] to boycott" and "act[s]
of boycott [and] coercion" within the meaning of § 3(b) of the
McCarran-Ferguson  Act, which makes it clear that the Sher-
man Act applies to such agreements  and acts regardless  of
the § 2(b) exemption.  See 938 F. 2d, at 928.  I agree with
12 The Court of Appeals's assumption that "the American reinsurers...
are subject to regulation by the states and therefore prima facie immune,"
938 F. 2d, at 928, appears to rest on the  entity-based analysis we have
rejected.  As with the foreign reinsurers, we express no opinion whether
the activities of the domestic reinsurers were "regulated by State Law"
and leave that question to the Court of Appeals on remand.

