

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
450  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
insufﬁcient assistance in the provision of service to rivals” 
did not violate the Sherman Act.  Id., at 410.  Trinko thus 
makes clear that if a ﬁrm has no antitrust duty to deal with 
its competitors at wholesale, it certainly has no duty to deal 
under  terms  and  conditions  that  the  rivals  ﬁnd  commer­
cially advantageous. 
In this case, as in Trinko, the defendant has no antitrust 
duty to deal with its rivals at wholesale; any such duty arises 
only from FCC regulations, not from the Sherman Act.  See 
supra, at 448.  There is no meaningful distinction between 
the “insufﬁcient assistance” claims  we rejected in Trinko 
and the plaintiffs’ price-squeeze claims in the instant case. 
The Trinko plaintiff challenged the quality of Verizon’s inter­
connection service, while this case involves a challenge to 
AT&T’s pricing structure.  But for antitrust purposes, there 
is no reason to distinguish between price and nonprice com­
ponents of a transaction.  See, e. g., American Telephone & 
Telegraph Co. v. Central Ofﬁce Telephone, Inc., 524 U. S. 214, 
223 (1998) (“Any claim for excessive rates can be couched as 
a claim for inadequate services and vice versa”).  The nub 
of the complaint in both Trinko and this case is identical— 
the plaintiffs alleged that the defendants (upstream monopo­
lists) abused their power in the wholesale market to prevent 
rival ﬁrms from competing effectively in the retail market. 
Trinko holds that such claims are not cognizable under the 
Sherman Act in the absence of an antitrust duty to deal. 
The District Court and the Court of Appeals did not re­
gard Trinko as controlling because that case did not directly 
address price-squeeze claims.  503 F. 3d, at 883; App. to Pet. 
for Cert. 86a; see also Brief for COMPTEL as Amicus Cu­
riae 27–30.  This is technically true, but the reasoning of 
Trinko  applies  with  equal  force  to  price-squeeze  claims. 
AT&T could have squeezed its competitors’ proﬁts just as 
effectively by providing poor-quality interconnection service 
to the plaintiffs, as Verizon allegedly did in Trinko.  But a 
ﬁrm with no duty to deal in the wholesale market has no 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  451 
Opinion of the Court 
obligation to deal under terms and conditions favorable to its 
competitors.  If AT&T had simply stopped providing DSL 
transport service to the plaintiffs, it would not have run afoul 
of the Sherman Act.  Under these circumstances, AT&T was 
not required to offer this service at the wholesale prices the 
plaintiffs would have preferred. 
2. The other component of a price-squeeze claim is the as­
sertion  that  the  defendant’s  retail  prices  are  “too  low.” 
Here too plaintiffs’ claims ﬁnd no support in our existing an­
titrust doctrine. 
“[C]utting prices in order to increase business often is the 
very essence of competition.”  Matsushita Elec. Industrial 
Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S. 574, 594 (1986).  In cases 
seeking to impose antitrust liability for prices that are too 
low, mistaken inferences are “especially costly, because they 
chill the very conduct the antitrust laws are designed to pro­
tect.”  Ibid.; see also Brooke Group, 509 U. S., at 226; Car­
gill, Inc. v.  Monfort of Colo., Inc., 479 U. S. 104, 121–122, 
n. 17 (1986).  To avoid chilling aggressive price competition, 
we  have  carefully  limited  the  circumstances  under  which 
plaintiffs can state a Sherman Act claim by alleging that 
prices are too low.  Speciﬁcally, to prevail on a predatory 
pricing  claim,  a  plaintiff  must  demonstrate  that:  (1)  “the 
prices complained of are below an appropriate measure of its 
rival’s costs”; and (2) there is a “dangerous probability” that 
the  defendant  will  be  able  to  recoup  its  “investment”  in 
below-cost prices.  Brooke Group, supra, at 222–224.  “Low 
prices beneﬁt consumers regardless of how those prices are 
set, and so long as they are above predatory levels, they do 
not threaten competition.”  Atlantic Richﬁeld Co. v.  USA 
Petroleum Co., 495 U. S. 328, 340 (1990). 
In the complaint at issue in this interlocutory appeal, App. 
10–24, there is no allegation that AT&T’s conduct met either 
of the Brooke Group requirements.  Recognizing a price­
squeeze  claim  where  the  defendant’s  retail  price  remains 
above cost would invite the precise harm we sought to avoid 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
452  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
in Brooke Group: Firms might raise their retail prices or 
refrain from aggressive price competition to avoid potential 
antitrust liability.  See 509 U. S., at 223 (“As a general rule, 
the exclusionary effect of prices above a relevant measure of 
cost either reﬂects the lower cost structure of the alleged 
predator, and so represents competition on the merits, or is 
beyond the practical ability of a judicial tribunal to control 
without  courting  intolerable  risks  of  chilling  legitimate 
price cutting”). 
3. Plaintiffs’ price-squeeze claim, looking to the relation 
between retail and wholesale prices, is thus nothing more 
than an amalgamation of a meritless claim at the retail level 
and a meritless claim at the wholesale level.  If there is no 
duty to deal at the wholesale level and no predatory pricing 
at the retail level, then a ﬁrm is certainly not required to 
price both of these services in a manner that preserves its 
rivals’ proﬁt margins.3 
C 
1. Institutional concerns also counsel against recognition 
of such claims.  We have repeatedly emphasized the impor­
tance of clear rules in antitrust law.  Courts are ill suited 
“to  act  as  central  planners,  identifying  the  proper  price, 
quantity, and other terms of dealing.”  Trinko, 540 U. S., at 
408.  “ ‘No court should impose a duty to deal that it cannot 
3 Like the Court of Appeals, 503 F. 3d, at 880, amici argue that price­
squeeze claims have been recognized by Courts of Appeals for many years, 
beginning with Judge Hand’s opinion in United States v. Aluminum Co. of 
America, 148 F. 2d 416 (CA2 1945) (Alcoa).  In that case, the Government 
alleged that Alcoa was using its monopoly power in the upstream alumi­
num ingot market to squeeze the proﬁts of downstream aluminum sheet 
fabricators.  The court concluded: “That it was unlawful to set the price 
of ‘sheet’ so low and hold the price of ingot so high, seems to us unques­
tionable, provided, as we have held, that on this record the price of ingot 
must be regarded as higher than a ‘fair price.’ ”  Id., at 438.  Given devel­
opments in economic theory and antitrust jurisprudence since Alcoa, we 
ﬁnd our recent decisions in Trinko and Brooke Group more pertinent to 
the question before us. 

