

742  POSTAL  SERVICE  v. FLAMINGO  INDUSTRIES  (USA) LTD.
Opinion of the Court
Housing Administration v. Burr, 309 U. S. 242 (1940).  In
support of its holding in Burr the Court, in a passage  often
cited in later cases involving the waiver of sovereign immu-
nity, wrote as follows:
"[I]t  must  be  presumed  that when  Congress  launched
a governmental  agency  into the commercial  world  and
endowed  it  with  authority  to  'sue  or  be  sued,'  that
agency  is not less  amenable  to judicial process  than  a
private enterprise under like circumstances  would be."
Id., at 245.
This general proposition was cited in the first two cases in
which the Court considered the extent of the waiver effected
by  the sue-and-be-sued  clause  of the  PRA.  In  Franchise
Tax Bd. of Cal. v. Postal Service, 467  U. S. 512 (1984),  the
underlying  dispute  concerned  the  obligation  of the  Postal
Service to withhold unpaid state taxes from the wages of its
employees.  A unanimous Court held that the Postal Service
was required to respond to an order to withhold the amounts,
even though the process was a state administrative tax levy,
not an order issued by a state court.  Id., at 525.  The sue-
and-be-sued clause, the Court held, must be given broad ef-
fect, and the Postal Service was  required to respond to the
administrative order even though it had not been issued by
a judicial body.  Id., at 519-521.
The  second case in which  the Court considered  the scope
of the waiver  effected  by the PRA's sue-and-be-sued  clause
was Loeffler v. Frank, 486 U. S. 549 (1988).  After the Postal
Service had been found liable for damages from employment
discrimination  in an  action  brought under Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, the question arose whether it was
subject as well to prejudgment  interest.  Id., at 551.  The
Court allowed the interest, and in the course of its decision
asserted, or repeated,  formulations which  indicate that the
sue-and-be-sued  clause  effects a broad  waiver of immunity.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
Id., at 554-555.  The Court also relied, however, upon the
provisions of Title VII itself which, by specific amendment,
extended the coverage under the Civil Rights Act to federal
employees.  Id., at 558-561.
After  Loeffler,  this  Court  decided  FDIC v.  Meyer, 510
U. S. 471,  484  (1994).  In Meyer, the question was  whether
the  Federal Savings  and  Loan Insurance  Corporation
(FSLIC), an agency of the United States, could be held liable
in a so-called "Bivens action."  See Bivens v. Six Unknown
Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S. 388 (1971).  A federal stat-
ute provided  for  a  waiver  of sovereign  immunity  in  suits
against  the FSLIC,  but  the  Court  explained  that  the  in-
terpretation of the waiver  statute was just the initial part
of  a  two-part  inquiry.  Even  though  sovereign  immunity
had been  waived, there was  the further, separate  question
whether the agency was  subject to the substantive  liability
recognized  in Bivens.  Meyer, supra, at 483.  The Loeffler
Court had not set forth the two-step analysis in the explicit
terms  Meyer used, but it did, as we have  said, consult the
statute as the source  of the liability upon which the obliga-
tion to pay prejudgment interest depended.
The two-step analysis in Meyer applies here.  We ask first
whether there is a waiver of sovereign immunity for actions
against the Postal Service.  If there is, we ask the second
question,  which  is whether the  substantive  prohibitions  of
the Sherman Act apply  to an independent establishment  of
the Executive Branch of the United States.
When the Court of Appeals considered the instant case, it
cited Meyer and seemed at the outset to follow Meyer's two-
step analysis.  In our view, however, the ensuing discussion
in the Court of Appeals' opinion was not consistent with the
Meyer framework; for, having found that the Postal Service's
immunity  from  suit  is  waived  to the  extent  provided  by
the statutory sue-and-be-sued  clause,  the Court of Appeals
relied  on  the  same  waiver  to  conclude  that  the  Sherman

NEW PAGE

744  POSTAL  SERVICE  v.  FLAMINGO INDUSTRIES  (USA) LTD.
Opinion of the Court
Act  applies  to the Postal  Service.  This  conflated  the two
steps and  resulted in an erroneous  conclusion.  See  Meyer,
supra, at 484.
As  to  the  first  step,  as  an  "independent  establishment
of the  executive  branch  of the Government  of the  United
States,"  39 U. S. C. ยง 201.,  the Postal  Service is part of the
Government and that status indicates immunity unless there
is  a waiver.  The  sue-and-be-sued  clause  waives immunity,
and makes the Postal Service amenable  to suit, as well as to
the incidents of judicial process.  ยง 401.  See Meyer, supra,
at 482;  Loeffler, supra, at  565;  Franchise Tax  Bd.,  supra,
at 525.  While Congress waived the immunity of the Postal
Service, Congress did not strip it of its governmental status.
The distinction is important.  An absence of immunity does
not result  in  liability if the  substantive  law  in question  is
not intended to reach the federal entity.  So we proceed to
Meyer's second step to determine if the substantive antitrust
liability defined by the statute extends to the Postal Service.
Under Meyer's second step, we must look to the statute.
Some years before Meyer was decided,  the Court of Ap-
peals for the District of Columbia Circuit recognized the two
distinct inquiries required when the question is whether the
Government,  or an entity it owns, is named as a defendant
in a suit under the  antitrust laws.  Sea-Land Serv., Inc. v.
Alaska R. Co.,  659  F. 2d 243,  245  (1981)  (R.  Ginsburg, J.).
That is the correct approach.  Upon examining the Sherman
Act, our decisions interpreting it, and the statutes that cre-
ate  and  organize  the Postal  Service,  we  conclude  that the
Postal Service is not subject to antitrust liability.
The  Sherman  Act imposes  liability  on any  "person."  It
defines  the word.  It provides  that  "'person'  . . . shall be
deemed  to  include  corporations  and  associations  existing
under or authorized by the laws of either the United States
[or of States or foreign governments]."  15 U. S. C. ยง 7.  It
follows then, that corporate or governmental status in most
instances is not a bar to the imposition  of liability on an en-

