

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
Brown & Williamson had a reasonable prospect of producing
sustained  supracompetitive  pricing  in the generic segment
adequate to recoup its predatory losses: first, if generic out-
put or price information indicates that oligopolistic price co-
ordination  in fact  produced  supracompetitive  prices  in the
generic segment; or second, if evidence about the market and
Brown  & Williamson's  conduct  indicate  that  the  alleged
scheme was likely to have brought about tacit coordination
and oligopoly  pricing in the generic  segment, even if it did
not actually do so.
1
In this case,  the price and  output data do not support a
reasonable inference that Brown & Williamson and the other
cigarette companies elevated prices above a competitive level
for  generic  cigarettes.  Supracompetitive  pricing  entails  a
restriction  in  output.  See  National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. v. Board of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468  U. S. 85,
104-108  (1984);  Broadcast Music, Inc. v. Columbia Broad-
casting System, Inc., 441  U. S.  1, 19-20  (1979);  P. Samuel-
son & W. Nordhaus,  Economics 516 (12th ed. 1985); Sullivan,
Antitrust, at 32; Bork, The Antitrust Paradox, at 178-179; 2
Areeda  & Turner  403a;  Easterbrook, The  Limits of Anti-
trust, 63 Texas L. Rev. 1, 20, 31  (1984).  In the present set-
ting, in  which  output expanded  at  a  rapid  rate  following
Brown  & Williamson's alleged predation,  output in the ge-
neric  segment  can only  have  been restricted  in  the sense
that it expanded at a slower rate than it would have absent
Brown & Williamson's intervention.  Such a counterfactual
proposition is difficult to prove in the best of circumstances;
here, the record evidence does not permit a reasonable infer-
ence that output would have been greater without Brown &
Williamson's entry into the generic segment.
Following Brown & Williamson's  entry, the rate at which
generic cigarettes were capturing market share did not slow;
indeed,  the average  rate of growth  doubled.  During  the

NEW PAGE

234  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
four years from 1980 to  1984 in which  Liggett was alone in
the generic segment, the segment gained market share at an
average rate of 1% of the overall market per year, from 0.4%
in 1980 to slightly more than 4% of the cigarette market in
1984.  In the next  five years, following the alleged preda-
tion, the generic  segment  expanded from 4% to more than
15%  of the domestic  cigarette market, or  greater than 2%
per year.
While this evidence tends to show that Brown & William-
son's  participation  in the economy segment did not restrict
output, it is not dispositive.  One could speculate, for exam-
ple, that the rate of segment growth would have tripled, in-
stead of doubled, without Brown & Williamson's alleged pre-
dation.  But there is no concrete  evidence of this.  Indeed,
the only  industry projection in the record estimating what
the segment's  growth  would have  been  without Brown  &
Williamson's entry supports the opposite inference.  In 1984,
Brown & Williamson forecast in an important planning docu-
ment that the economy segment  would account  for  10%  of
the  total cigarette  market  by  1988  if it  did not enter  the
segment.  App. 133,  135.  In fact, in 1988,  after what  Lig-
gett alleges was a sustained and dangerous  anticompetitive
campaign by Brown & Williamson,  the generic  segment ac-
counted  for over 12%  of the  total market.  Id., at 354-356.
Thus  the  segment's  output  expanded  more  robustly  than
Brown  & Williamson had estimated  it would had Brown  &
Williamson never entered.
Brown  & Williamson  did  note  in  1985,  a  year  after  in-
troducing  its  black  and  whites,  that  its  presence  within
the  generic  segment  "appears  to have  resulted  in  . . . a
slowing  in  the segment's  growth  rate."  Id.,  at 257.  But
this  statement  was  made  in  early  1985,  when  Liggett
itself contends the below-cost pricing was still in effect and
before  any anticompetitive  contraction  in output is alleged
to have occurred.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
Whatever  it may mean,2 this  statement has  little value  in
evaluating the competitive implications of Brown & William-
son's later conduct, which  was alleged to provide  the basis
for recouping predatory losses.
In  arguing that Brown  & Williamson  was  able to exert
market power and raise generic prices above a competitive
level in the generic category through tacit price coordination
with  the other  cigarette  manufacturers,  Liggett places  its
principal reliance on direct evidence of price behavior.  This
evidence  demonstrates that the list prices on all cigarettes,
generic and branded alike, rose to a significant degree during
the late  1980's.  Id., at 325.  From 1986  to 1989, list prices
on  both  generic  and  branded  cigarettes  increased  twice  a
year by  similar amounts.  Liggett's  economic  expert  testi-
fied  that these price  increases  outpaced  increases  in  costs,
taxes, and promotional  expenditures.  Id., at 525.  The list
prices  of generics, moreover, rose at a faster rate than the
prices  of branded  cigarettes,  thus narrowing the list price
differential between branded  and generic products.  Id., at
325.  Liggett argues  that  this  would  permit  a  reasonable
jury to find that Brown & Williamson succeeded in bringing
about  oligopolistic  price  coordination  and  supracompetitive
prices in the generic  category  sufficient to slow its growth,
thereby preserving supracompetitive branded profits and re-
couping its predatory losses.
A reasonable jury, however, could not have drawn the in-
ferences  Liggett proposes.  All of Liggett's data are based
upon the list prices of various categories of cigarettes.  Yet
the jury had before  it undisputed evidence  that during the
period in question, list prices were not the actual prices paid
by consumers.  100 Tr. 227-229.  As the market became un-
2 This statement could well have referred to the rate at which the seg-
ment was growing relative to prior years' generic volume; this "internal"
rate of growth would inevitably slow as the base volume against which it
was measured grew.

