

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
The court defined the word "required" to establish a separate
condition that the property sought to be condemned  be nec-
essary (indispensable) for Amtrak's operations, a view which
is not without support.  See, e. g.,  American  Heritage Dic-
tionary of the  English  Language  1105  (2d ed. 1981).  This
interpretation, though, leaves  little substance to the statu-
tory presumption in favor of Amtrak's need and so is in clear
tension with that part of the statute.
We decide that § 562(d) is ambiguous in some respects and
conclude  that  the  ICC's  interpretation  of  the  word  "re-
quired" is a reasonable one.  We defer to its interpretation.
This is not to say that the issue is beyond dispute, but these
alternative interpretations are as old as the jurisprudence of
this Court.  In McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 413
(1819),  Chief Justice Marshall, in a choice of interpretations
with  some parallels to this one, read the word "necessary"
to mean "convenient, or useful," rejecting a stricter reading
of the term which  would have limited congressional  power
under  the  Constitution  to  the  "most  direct  and  simple"
means available.  We think that as a matter of definition and
interpretation in the context of this statute it is plausible, if
not preferable, to say that Amtrak can find that an acquisi-
tion is required when it is a useful and appropriate way to
accomplish its goals.
The  Commission's  interpretation  is  consistent  also with
the 1990 statutory addition enacted by Congress.  While the
amendment does not modify the specific language of § 562(d)
at issue here, it confirms  the ICC's view.  The  interpreta-
tion  given to  § 562(d)  by  the  Court of Appeals  and  B&M,
on the other hand, would make the amendment superfluous,
because  if the word  "required" has the strict meaning they
seek to attribute to it, condemnations by Amtrak would seem
to be barred whenever Amtrak's purpose is to reconvey  the
property.
Contrary to the position of the dissent, we are not "defer-
ring to what we imagine an agency had in mind."  Post, at

NEW PAGE

420  NATIONAL  RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE  CORP.
Opinion of the Court
428.  Rather, we defer to an interpretation which was a nec-
essary presupposition of the ICC's decision.  We  recognize
the well-established  rule that an agency's  action may not be
upheld on grounds other than those relied on by the agency.
SEC v. Chenery Corp., 318 U. S. 80, 88 (1943).  But the fact
that the ICC did not in so many words articulate its interpre-
tation of the word  "required"  does  not mean that we may
not defer to that  interpretation, since  the only  reasonable
reading of the Commission's  opinion, and the only plausible
explanation  of the  issues  that  the  Commission  addressed
after considering the factual submissions by all of the par-
ties, is that the ICC's decision  was based on the proffered
interpretation.  Chenery does  not require  a remand  under
those circumstances.  It is noteworthy  in this regard  that
neither party contends the ICC's decision was not informed
and governed by this statutory interpretation.  B&M's pri-
mary argument to the Court is that the word required must
mean  necessary.  Brief  for  Respondent  B&M  16,  22,  44.
But this, as we have said, is quite inconsistent with the statu-
tory presumption of need to which the ICC gave effect.
There is no dispute on this record that Amtrak intends to
use the condemned track for its Montrealer service.  Under
the ICC's view that use is sufficient to satisfy the statutory
command  that  the rail property  be  "required  for intercity
rail passenger service."  This is a reasonable  interpretation
and application  of the RPSA.  And  it ends the judicial in-
quiry on this point.
What we have said also answers Judge Ginsburg's concern
that the ICC must make specific findings regarding Amtrak's
actual need for the condemnation.  The contention that such
a finding was necessary, to implement the statutory criterion
that the property be "required  for intercity rail  passenger
service,"  was the basis for Judge Ginsburg's concurrence  in
the Court of Appeals.  286 U. S. App. D. C., at 12, 911 F. 2d,
at 754.  That position, however, appears to be based on the
same interpretation of the word "required" as that adopted

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
by the Court of Appeals' majority, and so is inconsistent with
the ICC's interpretation.  The ICC contends that the factual
finding is not mandated.  It argues that the structure of the
statute, combined with the presumption created by the stat-
ute  of Amtrak's  need  for  the  property  sought,  creates  a
strong inference that the statute authorizes Amtrak to make
a  reasonable  business judgment  that  condemnation  of the
property is advisable.  We agree.  The ICC's oversight re-
sponsibility, exercised by enforcing  the "required for inter-
city rail passenger service" language  as interpreted  by the
Commission, is limited to ensuring that the condemned prop-
erty will be used in Amtrak's rail operations.  The further
determination  of need  is delegated  to Amtrak,  unless  the
statutory  presumption  is  rebutted;  and  it is not  rebutted
here.  Indeed, as our  discussion above  indicates, supra, at
418-419, it seems to us that any other interpretation may be
inconsistent with the statutory presumption of need.  In all
events, the ICC's interpretation is a reasonable one, and we
may not substitute a different view.
Arguing against the ICC's interpretation, B&M cites to us
cases such as  United States v. Carmack, 329 U. S. 230, 243,
n.  13 (1946),  which  suggest that delegations of eminent  do-
main power to private entities are of a limited nature.  We
do not believe that argument has any relevance here because
Amtrak  does  not  exercise  eminent  domain  power  under
§ 562(d).  Rather, the statute gives that power to the ICC, a
Government agency.  To be sure, the statute creates a pre-
sumption in favor of conveyance  to Amtrak.  But the ICC
must  assess  the  impact of any  condemnation  and  make  a
determination  as  to just compensation.  Since  § 562(d)  is a
proper exercise of regulatory authority, and the ICC's over-
sight of Amtrak  is intended  to ensure  compliance  with the
statute, the eminent domain power here is not private.
Furthermore, this case turns on the need for deference to
the ICC, not Amtrak.  There  is nothing in the cases  B&M
cites  contradicting  the  rule  of  judicial  deference  to  an

