

212  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN  & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE KENNEDY  delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case  stems from a market struggle  that erupted  in
the  domestic  cigarette  industry  in  the  mid-1980's.  Peti-
tioner Brooke Group Ltd., whom we, like the parties to the
case,  refer  to  as  Liggett  because  of its  former  corporate
name, charges that to counter its innovative development of
generic cigarettes, respondent Brown & Williamson Tobacco
Corporation introduced  its own line of generic cigarettes  in
an unlawful effort to stifle price competition in the economy
segment of the national cigarette market.  Liggett contends
that Brown  & Williamson  cut prices  on generic  cigarettes
below  cost  and  offered  discriminatory  volume  rebates  to
wholesalers  to  force Liggett to raise  its own generic  ciga-
rette prices and introduce  oligopoly pricing in the economy
segment.  We hold that Brown  & Williamson is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.
In  1980,  Liggett  pioneered  the development  of the econ-
omy segment of the national cigarette market by introducing
a line of "black and white" generic cigarettes.  The economy
segment  of the market,  sometimes  called the generic  seg-
ment, is characterized  by its bargain prices and comprises a
variety  of different products:  black and  whites,  which  are
true generics sold in plain white packages with simple black
lettering  describing  their contents;  private  label  generics,
which carry the trade dress of a specific purchaser, usually a
retail chain; branded generics, which carry a brand name but
which, like black and whites and private label generics, are
sold at a deep discount and with little or no advertising; and
"Value-25s,"  packages  of 25 cigarettes  that are sold  to the
consumer some 12.5% below the cost of a normal 20-cigarette
pack.  By 1984, when Brown & Williamson entered the ge-
neric segment and set in motion the series of events giving
rise to this suit, Liggett's black and whites represented 97%
of the generic segment, which in turn accounted for a little

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
more than 4% of domestic cigarette sales.  Prior to Liggett's
introduction of black and whites in 1980, sales of generic cig-
arettes amounted  to less than  1% of the domestic cigarette
market.
Because  of the procedural  posture  of this  case, we view
the  evidence  in the  light most favorable  to  Liggett.  The
parties are in basic agreement, however, regarding the cen-
tral,  historical  facts.  Cigarette  manufacturing  has  long
been one  of America's  most concentrated  industries, see F.
Scherer  & D. Ross,  Industrial  Market  Structure  and  Eco-
nomic Performance 250 (3d ed. 1990) (hereinafter Scherer &
Ross);  App. 495-498, and for decades,  production  has been
dominated by six firms: R. J. Reynolds, Philip Morris, Ameri-
can  Brands,  Lorillard,  and the two litigants  involved  here,
Liggett and Brown & Williamson.  R. J. Reynolds and Philip
Morris, the two industry leaders, enjoyed respective market
shares of about 28% and 40% at the time of trial.  Brown &
Williamson  ran a distant  third, its market share never ex-
ceeding 12%  at any time relevant to this dispute.  Liggett's
share  of the market was even less, from a low of just over
2% in 1980 to a high of just over 5% in 1984.
The cigarette industry also has long been one of America's
most profitable,  in part because  for many years there was
no significant price competition among the rival firms.  See
Scherer  & Ross  250-251;  R. Tennant,  American  Cigarette
Industry 86-87 (1950);  App. 128, 500-509,  531.  List prices
for cigarettes increased in lockstep, twice a year, for a num-
ber of years,  irrespective  of the  rate  of inflation,  changes
in  the costs  of production,  or  shifts  in  consumer  demand.
Substantial evidence suggests that in recent decades, the in-
dustry  reaped  the  benefits  of prices  above  a  competitive
level, though not through unlawful conduct of the type that
once  characterized  the  industry.  See  Tennant,  supra, at
275, 342; App. 389-392, 514-519, 658-659;  cf. American To-
bacco Co. v. United States, 328 U. S. 781 (1946);  United States

NEW PAGE

214  BROOKE  GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
v. American Tobacco Co.,  221  U. S.  106  (1911);  Scherer  &
Ross 451.
By  1980,  however,  broad  market  trends  were  working
against the industry.  Overall demand  for cigarettes  in the
United States  was declining,  and no immediate prospect of
recovery  existed.  As  industry  volume.  shrank,  all  firms
developed  substantial  excess  capacity.  This decline  in  de-
mand, coupled with the effects of nonprice  competition, had
a severe negative impact on Liggett.  Once a major force in
the industry, with market shares in excess of 20%, Liggett's
market share had declined by 1980 to a little over 2%.  With
this meager share of the market, Liggett was on the verge
of going out of business.
At the urging of a  distributor, Liggett took  an  unusual
step to revive its prospects: It developed a line of black and
white  generic  cigarettes.  When  introduced  in  1980, black
and whites were offered to consumers at a list price roughly
30% lower  than  the list price  of full-priced,  branded  ciga-
rettes.  They were also promoted at the wholesale level by
means  of rebates  that  increased  with  the volume  of ciga-
rettes  ordered.  Black  and  white  cigarettes  thus  repre-
sented a new marketing category.  The category's principal
competitive  characteristic  was  low  price.  Liggett's  black
and  whites  were  an  immediate  and  considerable  success,
growing from a fraction of a percent of the market at their
introduction  to  over  4%  of the  total  cigarette  market  by
early 1984.
As the market for Liggett's generic  cigarettes expanded,
the  other  cigarette  companies  found  themselves  unable to
ignore the economy segment.  In general, the growth of ge-
nerics came at the expense of the other firms' profitable sales
of branded  cigarettes.  Brown  & Williamson  was  hardest
hit, because  many of Brown & Williamson's  brands were fa-
vored  by consumers  who were sensitive to changes in ciga-
rette prices.  Although Brown & Williamson sold only 11.4%
of the market's  branded  cigarettes,  20%  of the converts  to

