

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  167 
Syllabus 
did Reeder even attempt to show that the compared dealers were con­
sistently favored over it.  Reeder simply paired occasions on which it 
competed with non-Volvo dealers for a sale to Customer A with in­
stances in which other Volvo dealers competed with non-Volvo dealers 
for a sale to Customer B.  The compared incidents were tied to no sys­
tematic study and were separated in time by as many as seven months. 
This Court declines to permit an inference of competitive injury from 
evidence of such a mix-and-match, manipulable quality.  No similar risk 
of manipulation occurs in cases kin to the chainstore paradigm.  Here, 
there is no discrete “favored” dealer comparable to a chainstore or a 
large independent department store—at least, Reeder’s evidence is in­
sufﬁcient to support an inference that such a dealer exists.  For all that 
appears, Reeder, on occasion, might have gotten a better deal vis-a`-vis 
one or more of the dealers in its comparisons.  While Reeder may have 
competed with other Volvo dealers for the opportunity to bid on poten­
tial sales in a broad geographic area, competition at that initial stage is 
based on a variety of factors, including the existence vel non of a rela­
tionship between the potential bidder and the customer, geography, and 
reputation.  Once the customer has chosen the particular dealers from 
which it will solicit bids, the relevant market becomes limited to the 
needs and demands of the particular end user, with only a handful of 
dealers competing for the sale.  Volvo dealers’ bidding for sales in the 
same geographic area does not import that they in fact competed for 
the same customer-tailored sales.  Pp. 178–179. 
(b) Nor is a Robinson-Patman violation established by Reeder’s ev­
idence of two instances in which it competed head to head with another 
Volvo dealer.  When multiple dealers bid for the business of the same 
customer, only one dealer will win the business and thereafter purchase 
the supplier’s product to fulﬁll its contractual commitment.  Even as­
suming the Act applies to head-to-head transactions, Reeder did not 
establish that it was disfavored vis-a`-vis other Volvo dealers in the rare 
instances in which they competed for the same sale—let alone that the 
alleged discrimination was substantial.  Reeder’s evidence showed loss 
of only one sale to another Volvo dealer, a sale of 12 trucks that would 
have generated $30,000 in gross proﬁts for Reeder.  Per its policy, Volvo 
initially offered Reeder and the other dealer the same concession, but 
ultimately granted a larger concession to the other dealer after it had 
won the bid.  In the only other instance of head-to-head competition, 
Volvo increased Reeder’s initial discount to match the discount offered 
the other competing Volvo dealer, but neither dealer won the bid.  If 
price discrimination between two purchasers existed at all, it was not 
of such magnitude as to affect substantially competition between Reeder 
and the “favored” Volvo dealer.  Pp. 179–180. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
168  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Syllabus 
3. The Robinson-Patman Act signals no large departure from antitrust 
law’s primary concern, interbrand competition.  Even if the Act’s text 
could be construed as Reeder urges and the Eighth Circuit held, this 
Court would resist interpretation geared more to the protection of ex­
isting competitors than to the stimulation of competition.  There is no 
evidence here that any favored purchaser possesses market power, the 
allegedly favored purchasers are dealers with little resemblance to large 
independent department stores or chain operations, and the supplier’s 
selective price discounting fosters competition among suppliers of differ­
ent brands.  By declining to extend Robinson-Patman’s governance to 
such cases, the Court continues to construe the Act consistently with 
antitrust law’s broader policies.  Pp. 180–181. 
374 F. 3d 701, reversed and remanded. 
Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, 
C. J., and O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, and Breyer, JJ., joined. 
Stevens, J., ﬁled a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas, J., joined, post, 
p. 182. 
Roy T. Englert, Jr.,  argued the cause for petitioner.  With 
him on the briefs were Donald J. Russell, Max Huffman, 
and David L. Williams. 
Deputy Solicitor General Hungar argued the cause for 
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With 
him on the brief were Solicitor General Clement, Assistant 
Attorney General Pate, Deputy Assistant Attorney General 
Delrahim, Jonathan  L. Marcus, Catherine  G. O’Sullivan, 
and David Seidman. 
Carter G. Phillips argued the cause for respondent.  With 
him on the briefs were Richard D. Bernstein, Stephen B. 
Kinnaird, and Joe D. Byars, Jr.* 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the American 
Petroleum Institute by Carolyn F. Corwin, Harry M. Ng, and Douglas W. 
Morris; for the National Electrical Manufacturers Association by Clark 
R. Silcox; for the Truck Manufacturers Association et al. by G. Michael 
Halfenger; and for the Washington Legal Foundation by Daniel J. Popeo 
and David Price. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the National 
Automobile  Dealers  Association  by  Paul  R.  Norman  and  Catherine 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  169 
Opinion of the Court 
Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court. 
This  case  concerns  specially  ordered  products—heavy­
duty trucks supplied by Volvo Trucks North America, Inc. 
(Volvo), and sold by franchised dealers through a competitive 
bidding process.  In this process, the retail customer states 
its  speciﬁcations  and  invites  bids,  generally  from  dealers 
franchised by different manufacturers.  Only when a Volvo 
dealer’s bid proves successful does the dealer arrange to pur­
chase the trucks, which Volvo then builds to meet the cus­
tomer’s speciﬁcations. 
Reeder-Simco GMC, Inc. (Reeder), a Volvo dealer located 
in Fort Smith, Arkansas, commenced suit against Volvo al­
leging that Reeder’s sales and proﬁts declined because Volvo 
offered other dealers more favorable price concessions than 
those offered to Reeder.  Reeder sought redress for its al­
leged losses under § 2 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, as 
amended by the Robinson-Patman Price Discrimination Act, 
49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C. § 13 (Robinson-Patman Act or Act), 
and the Arkansas Franchise Practices Act, Ark. Code Ann. 
§ 4–72–201 et seq. (2001).  Reeder prevailed at trial and on 
appeal on both claims. 
We  granted  review  on  the  federal  claim  to  resolve  the 
question whether a manufacturer offering its dealers differ­
ent wholesale prices may be held liable for price discrimina­
tion proscribed by Robinson-Patman, absent a showing that 
the manufacturer discriminated between dealers contempo­
raneously competing to resell to the same retail customer. 
While state law designed to protect franchisees may provide, 
and in this case has provided, a remedy for the dealer ex­
posed to conduct of the kind Reeder alleged, the Robinson-
Patman Act, we hold, does not reach the case Reeder pre­
sents.  The Act centrally addresses price discrimination in 
cases involving competition between different purchasers for 
Cetrangolo; and for the North American Equipment Dealers Association 
et al. by Wayne A. Mack. 

