

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
916  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
enjoy the psychological beneﬁt arising when a high-priced 
retailer stocks a particular brand of billfold or handbag) and 
then buy from another dealer at a lower price.  Sometimes 
this must happen in reality.  But does it happen often?  We 
do, after all, live in an economy where ﬁrms, despite Dr. 
Miles’  per  se  rule,  still  sell  complex  technical  equipment 
(as  well  as  expensive  perfume  and  alligator  billfolds)  to 
consumers. 
All this is to say that the ultimate question is not whether, 
but how much, “free riding” of this sort takes place.  And, 
after reading the briefs, I must answer that question with 
an uncertain “sometimes.”  See, e. g., Brief for William S. 
Comanor et al. as Amici Curiae 6–7 (noting “skepticism in 
the economic literature about how often [free riding] actually 
occurs”);  Scherer  &  Ross  551–555  (explaining  the  “severe 
limitations”  of  the  free-rider  justiﬁcation  for  resale  price 
maintenance); Pitofsky, Why Dr. Miles Was Right, 8 Regu­
lation, No. 1, pp. 27, 29–30 (Jan./Feb. 1984) (similar analysis). 
How easily can courts identify instances in which the bene­
ﬁts are likely to outweigh potential harms?  My own answer 
is, not very easily.  For one thing, it is often difﬁcult to iden­
tify who—producer or dealer—is the moving force behind 
any given  resale price  maintenance agreement.  Suppose, 
for  example,  several  large  multibrand  retailers  all  sell 
resale-price-maintained products.  Suppose further that 
small  producers  set  retail  prices  because  they  fear  that, 
otherwise, the large retailers will favor (say, by allocating 
better shelf space) the goods of other producers who practice 
resale price maintenance.  Who “initiated” this practice, the 
retailers hoping for considerable insulation from retail com­
petition, or the producers, who simply seek to deal best with 
the circumstances they ﬁnd?  For another thing, as I just 
said, it is difﬁcult to determine just when, and where, the 
“free  riding”  problem  is  serious  enough  to  warrant  legal 
protection. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  917 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
I recognize that scholars have sought to develop checklists 
and sets of questions that will help courts separate instances 
where anticompetitive harms are more likely from instances 
where  only  beneﬁts  are  likely  to  be  found.  See,  e. g.,  8 
Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶¶ 1633c–1633e, at 330–339.  See also 
Brief for William S. Comanor et al. as Amici Curiae 8–10. 
But applying these criteria in court is often easier said than 
done.  The Court’s invitation to consider the existence of 
“market power,” for example, ante, at 898, invites lengthy 
time-consuming argument among competing experts, as they 
seek to apply abstract, highly technical, criteria to often ill­
deﬁned markets.  And resale price maintenance cases, un­
like a major merger or monopoly case, are likely to prove 
numerous  and  involve  only  private  parties.  One  cannot 
fairly expect judges and juries in such cases to apply complex 
economic criteria without making a considerable number of 
mistakes, which themselves may impose serious costs.  See, 
e. g.,  H.  Hovenkamp,  The  Antitrust  Enterprise  105  (2005) 
(litigating a rule of reason case is “one of the most costly 
procedures in antitrust practice”).  See also Bok, Section 7 
of the Clayton Act and the Merging of Law and Economics, 
74 Harv. L. Rev. 226, 238–247 (1960) (describing lengthy FTC 
efforts to apply complex criteria in a merger case). 
Are there special advantages to a bright-line rule?  With­
out such a rule, it is often unfair, and consequently impracti­
cal, for enforcement ofﬁcials to bring criminal proceedings. 
And since enforcement resources are limited, that loss may 
tempt some producers or dealers to enter into agreements 
that are, on balance, anticompetitive. 
Given the uncertainties that surround key items in the 
overall balance sheet, particularly in respect to the “admin­
istrative” questions, I can concede to the majority that the 
problem is difﬁcult.  And, if forced to decide now, at most 
I might agree that the per se rule should be slightly modi­
ﬁed to allow an exception for the more easily identiﬁable 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
918  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
and temporary condition of “new entry.”  See Pitofsky 1495. 
But I am not now forced to decide this question.  The ques­
tion before us is not what should be the rule, starting from 
scratch.  We here must decide whether to change a clear 
and simple price-related antitrust rule that the courts have 
applied for nearly a century. 
II 
We write, not on a blank slate, but on a slate that begins 
with Dr. Miles and goes on to list a century’s worth of simi­
lar cases, massive amounts of advice that lawyers have pro­
vided their clients, and untold numbers of business decisions 
those clients have taken in reliance upon that advice.  See, 
e. g., United States v. Bausch & Lomb Optical Co., 321 U. S. 
707, 721 (1944); Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 51, n. 18 (“The per se 
illegality of [vertical] price restrictions has been established 
ﬁrmly for many years . . . ”).  Indeed, a Westlaw search 
shows that Dr. Miles itself has been cited dozens of times in 
this Court and hundreds of times in lower courts.  Those 
who wish this Court to change so well-established a legal 
precedent bear a heavy burden of proof.  See Illinois Brick 
Co. v. Illinois, 431 U. S. 720, 736 (1977) (noting, in declining 
to overrule an earlier case interpreting § 4 of the Clayton 
Act, that “considerations of stare decisis weigh heavily in 
the area of statutory construction, where Congress is free to 
change this Court’s interpretation of its legislation”).  I am 
not aware of any case in which this Court has overturned 
so  well-established  a  statutory  precedent.  Regardless,  I 
do not see how the Court can claim that ordinary criteria 
for  overruling  an  earlier  case  have  been  met.  See,  e. g., 
Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey, 505 U. S. 
833, 854–855 (1992).  See also Federal Election Comm’n v. 
Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc., ante, at 500–503 (Scalia, J., 
concurring in part and concurring in judgment). 

