

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion  of the  Court.  361 U. S.
of  the Act  and  the  National  Transportation  Policy,'  it
was required to "weigh  whether each  application is con-
sistent with the public interest, with or without inclusion
of other railroads, considering not only other intervening
petitioners seeking such inclusion but also the other appli-
cant and nonparticipating railroads as well."  It thought
that the burden of proof was "most heavy for an applicant
in  a proceeding like this, because it must not only over-
balance the claims of those seeking to share in the control
but also of those seeking  to exclude it from the transac-
tion."  It  conceived  it  to  be  its  duty,  under  the  Act
and the National  Transportation  Policy, to  "arrive  at a
standard of  public interest  and determine  which  of  the
various plans of control most nearly approximates it."
The  Commissioil  -found  that -the Santa  Fe-Pennsyl-
vania plan contemplates  that Western  "will continue to
be  operated  as  a separate  and independent  carrier  with
responsible management  located along its lines";  that it
"will  continue to maintain its own solicitation forces and
will be entirely free to solicit traffic in such manner as best
tW serve the interests of the Western,"  and that all "exist-
ing routes and channels of trade via the Western will be
maintained and-kept open without discrimination between
connecting  lines  of  railroad."  It found,  on  the  other
hand, that the Minneapolis plan "unequivocally contem-
plates the disappearance of the Western as an independent
and  neutral  connection  for  the  other  15  carriers  with
which it presently works";  that "[f]or  all practical  pur-
poses the Western  would be integrated, consolidated,  and
merged into the Minneapolis.for ownership, management,
and  operation";  that  features  of  the Minneapolis  plan
"would  be  extremely  harmful  to  other  cdrriers";  that
Western's  headquarters  office  at Peoria  would be elimi-
nated,  leaving  only a  trainmaster  and a  roadmaster  at
94 9 U. S. C., n.- preceding ยง 1, 54 Stat. 899.

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  183
173  Opinion of  the  CoUrt.
that point, and that the employment of most of Western's-
24 executives and 225 other employees would be severed.
The Commission further found that "[o] nly the Minne-
apolis and its supporting interveners, the States of Minne-
sota and South Dakota, advocate the disappearance of the
Western  as  a  separate  and  independent  operating  car-
rier," and that all other parties to, and intervenors in, the
proceedings  "insist  that  the  separate  and  independent
operation of the Western under its present local manage-
ment  is  a  public  necessity."  It  then  found  that  the
"[p] ublic interest demands that the present policies of the
Western in all respects be continued."  It thereupon made
the ultimate  finding, required  by ยง 5 (2)  (b)  of the Act,
that the acquisition' and plan  of operation  by the Santa
Fe  and  Pennsylvania,  subject  to  stated  conditions,  was
"within the scope of section 5 (2)  of the Interstate Com-
merce  Act, as  amended;  that the  terms  and  conditions
proposed  [by them] are just and reasonable, and that the
transaction  will be consistent  with the public  interest."
The  Commission  then  entered  its order  approving  the
SantaFe-Pennsylvania  application,  dismissing the Min-
neapolis application, and denying the petitions of the sev-
eral intervening railroads which  sought to participate in
the acquisition  of the Western stock.  295  I. C. C. 523.
Thereafter, Minneapolis petitioned the whole Commis-
sion  for  a  reconsideration,  and  alternatively  requested
that, if the approval of the Santa Fe-Pennsylvania appli-
cation  be permitted to stand, it be authorized  to partici-
pate  equally  with  those  railroads  in  the  purchase  of
Western's stock  on the same  terms.  That petition was
denied.
Minneapolis  then timely filed a complaint in the Dis-
trict Court for Minnesota against the United States and
the Interstate Commerce Commission  to vacate the Com-
mission's  order.  The  States  of  Minnesota  and  South
Dakota  and  their  respective  regulatory  commissions,

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959..
Opinion of  the Court.  361 U. S.
being interested in strengthening the Minneapolis, which
operates  in  those  States,  intervened  in  support  of  the
complaint.  The  defendants answered,  asserting the full
legality  of the Commission's  order.  The Santa Fe, the
Pennsylvania,  the Pennsylvania  Company,  the State of
Illinois, the 18 cities and seven chambers of commerce and
the numerous shippers  who  were  intervenors before  the
Commission,  intervened  in opposition  to  the complaint.
The Nickel Plate intervened,  complaining that the Com-
mission had improperly  denied its request to participate
in the purchase of the Western stock.
A three-judge  court  vas convened  and, after hearing,
rendered  its opinion  and judgment  sustaining the Com-
mission's order.  165 F. Supp. 893.  On separate appeals
by the Minneapolis, the State of Minnesota and its regu-
latory commission, and the State of South Dakota and its
regulatory commission,  the case was brought here and we
noted probable jurisdiction.  359 U. S. 933.  All of those
who were defendants and intervenors in opposition to the
complaint in the District Court, except the Nickel Plate,
are appellees in this Court.
Minneapolis, supported by the States of Minnesota and
South  Dakota;  contends,  first,  that  the  Commission
improperly adopted at the outset of its report the standard
of  "separate  and independent  management"  of Western
as the criterion governing the comparative merits of the
rival plans, which  was  antithetic to its application,  and
thereby  deprived it of  "fair comparative  consideration,"
and  that  the  District  Court  erred  in. approving  the
Commission's action.
The record does not support that contention.  Rather,
it shows  that the Commission's  governing  standard was
the "public interest," although it ultimately did find that
the public interest would be best served by Western's con-
tinued operation as a "separate and independent carrier."
We believe  that the recited findings show that the Coin-

