

Cite as: 518 U. S. 231 (1996)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
that would be produced in a free market.  Nor do those poli-
cies support a rule that would allow employers to suppress
wages  by implementing noncompetitive  agreements  among
themselves  on  matters  that have  not previously been  the
subject of either an agreement with labor or even a demand
by labor for inclusion in the bargaining process.  That, how-
ever, is what is at stake in this litigation.
II
In light  of the accommodation  that has been  struck be-
tween antitrust and labor law policy, it would be most ironic
to  extend an  exemption crafted to protect collective action
by employees  to protect  employers  acting jointly  to  deny
employees  the opportunity to  negotiate  their salaries indi-
vidually  in  a  competitive  market.  Perhaps  aware  of the
irony, the  Court  chooses  to analyze  this case  as though it
represented a typical impasse in an unexceptional multiem-
ployer bargaining process.  In so doing, it glosses over three
unique features of the case that are  critical to  the inquiry
into whether the policies of the labor laws require extension
of the nonstatutory labor exemption to this atypical case.
First, in this market, unlike any  other area of labor law
implicated  in the cases  cited by the Court, player salaries
are individually negotiated.  The practice of individually ne-
gotiating player  salaries prevailed  even  prior to collective
bargaining  The  players  did not challenge  the prevailing
3As the District Court explained: "The present case does not involve
any change in preexisting wage terms of either an active or expired collec-
tive bargaining agreement.  In fact, creation of the developmental squads
added a novel category of players to each NFL club.  These players were
not treated under the salary terms applicable  to regular NFL players.
Under the 1982 Collective Bargaining Agreement, the NFL players were
expressly given the right to negotiate the salary terms of their contracts.
1982 Collective Bargaining Agreement at Article XXII, Plaintiffs' Exhib-
its at 1.  By contrast, the developmental  squad contracts indicates that
the prospective  developmental  squad players had no right to negotiate
their own salary terms but instead were to receive a fixed non-negotiable

NEW PAGE

BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
practice because, unlike employees in most industries, they
want their compensation to be  determined by the forces of
the free market rather than by the process of collective bar-
gaining.  Thus, although the majority professes an inability
to  understand  anything  special  about  professional  sports
that should affect the framework of labor negotiations, ante,
at 248-249, in this business it is the employers, not the em-
ployees, who seek to impose a noncompetitive uniform wage
on a segment of the market and to put an end to competitive
wage negotiations.
Second, respondents  concede that the employers imposed
the wage  restraint to force owners  to comply with league-
wide rules that limit the number of players that may serve
on a team, not to facilitate a stalled bargaining  process, or
to  revisit  any  issue  previously  subjected  to  bargaining.
Brief for  Respondents  4. The employers  could  have  con-
fronted the culprits directly by stepping up enforcement  of
roster limits.  They instead chose to address the problem by
unilaterally preventing players from individually competing
in the labor market.
Third, although the majority asserts that the "club owners
had bargained with the players' union over a wage issue until
they reached impasse," ante, at 234, that hardly constitutes a
complete description of what transpired.  When the employ-
ers' representative advised the union that they proposed to
pay the players a uniform wage determined by the owners,
the union promptly and unequivocally  responded that their
proposal was inconsistent with the "principle"  of individual
salary negotiation  that had been  accepted  in the past and
that  predated  collective  bargaining.4  The  so-called  "bar-
salary of $1,000 per week.  Plaintiffs'  Exhibits at 8,  9, 15 & 28."  782
F. Supp. 125, 138 (DC 1991).
4 In a memorandum summarizing his meeting with the union representa-
tive, the owners representative stated, in part:
"Gene  [Upshaw] indicated he fully understood the developmental  squad
but could not agree to any arrangement that eliminated the right of any

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 518 U. S. 231 (1996)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
gaining"  that followed amounted to nothing more than the
employers'  notice to the union that they had decided to im-
plement a decision to replace individual  salary negotiations
with a uniform  wage level for  a specific group  of players.5
Given  these features  of the  case, I  do not  see  why the
employers should be entitled to a judicially crafted  exemp-
tion from antitrust liability.  We have explained that "[t]he
nonstatutory  exemption  has its source in the strong labor
policy  favoring  the  association  of  employees  to  eliminate
competition  over wages and working conditions."  Connell
Constr. Co., 421 U. S., at 622.  I know of no similarly strong
labor policy that favors the association of employers to elimi-
nate  a competitive  method  of negotiating  wages  that pre-
dates  collective bargaining  and  that labor would  prefer  to
preserve.
Even if some collective action by employers may justify an
exemption because it is necessary to maintain the "integrity
of the multiemployer bargaining unit," NLRB v. Brown, 380
U. S. 278, 289 (1965),  no such justification exists here.  The
employers  imposed a fixed wage even though there was no
dispute  over the pre-existing principle  that player salaries
should be individually negotiated.  They sought only to pre-
vent certain owners from evading roster limits and thereby
gaining an unfair  advantage.  Because  "the  employer's in-
terest is  a competitive  interest rather than  an interest in
regulating its own labor  relations,"  Mine Workers v. Pen-
nington, 381 U. S. 657, 667 (1965), there would seem to be no
player to negotiate his individual  salary.  Upshaw said that no matter
what salary level we proposed to pay developmental players, whether it
was our $1,000 weekly or a higher number, the union would not 'in princi-
ple' permit two classes of players to exist, one with individual bargaining
rights and one without."  App. 19-20.
5 The unique features of this case presumably explain why the National
Labor Relations Board (Labor Board) can endorse the position of the play-
ers in this case without fearing the adverse impact on the bargaining proc-
ess in the hypothetical  cases that concern the Court.  Brief for United
States et al. as Amici Curiae 27, n. 10.

