

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
tity as a "person" under the Act.  The federal prohibition,
for instance, binds state governmental bodies.  See Georgia
v. Evans, 316 U. S. 159 (1942); see also Pfizer Inc. v. Govern-
ment of India, 434 U. S. 308 (1978).
It is otherwise, however, when liability is pursued against
the Federal Government.  The Court made this proposition
clear  in  United States v. Cooper Corp., 312  U. S.  600,  614
(1941).  The  question  in  Cooper was  whether,  under  the
Sherman  Act,  the  United  States  was  a  person  who  could
bring a  treble-damages  claim  for its  own alleged  antitrust
injury.  The Court held the United  States could not sue for
antitrust damages because it is not a person under the anti-
trust statute.  Id.,  at 606-607.  Important to  the  present
case  is  an  explicit  reason  given by  the  Cooper Court  for
reaching its decision.  The Court observed  that if the defi-
nition of "person" included the United States, then the Gov-
ernment would be exposed to liability as an antitrust defend-
ant,  a  result  Congress  could  not  have  intended.  Id.,  at
607, 609.
After Cooper, Congress amended the antitrust statutes to
allow  the United  States  to bring antitrust  suits.  For our
purposes, the means by which it did so is instructive.  Con-
gress did not change the definition of "person" in the statute,
but added a new section allowing the United States to sue.
See  15  U.S. C.  § 15a.  So,  Cooper's conclusion  that  the
United States is not an antitrust "person," in particular not
a person who can be an antitrust defendant,  was unaltered
by  Congress'  action;  indeed,  the means  Congress  used to
amend the antitrust law implicitly ratified  Cooper's conclu-
sion that the United States is not a proper antitrust defend-
ant.  See  312  U. S.,  at  609;  Sea-Land, supra, at  245  ("Al-
though  Congress  was  well  aware  of the  view  the  Court
indicated  in Cooper Corp., that Congress had  not described
the  United  States as a  'person'  for Sherman Act  purposes,
Congress addressed only the direct holding in that case-the
ruling that the United States was not authorized to proceed

NEW PAGE

746  POSTAL  SERVICE v. FLAMINGO  INDUSTRIES  (USA) LTD.
Opinion of the Court
as a Sherman  Act treble damage  action  plaintiff" (footnote
omitted)).
The remaining question, then, is whether for purposes of
the antitrust  laws the  Postal  Service is a  person  separate
from the United States itself.  It is not.  The statutory des-
ignation of the Postal Service as an "independent establish-
ment  of  the  executive  branch  of  the  Government  of  the
United States" is not consistent  with the idea that it is an
entity existing outside the Government.  The  statutory in-
struction that the Postal Service is an establishment "of the
executive  branch  of the Government  of the United States"
indicates just the contrary.  The PRA gives the Postal Serv-
ice a high  degree of independence  from other offices  of the
Government, but it remains  part of the Government.  The
Sherman  Act defines  "person" to  include  corporations,  and
had the Congress  chosen to create the Postal Service as a
federal corporation, we would have to ask whether the Sher-
man Act's definition extends to the federal entity under this
part of the definitional text.  Congress, however, declined to
create the Postal Service as a Government corporation, opt-
ing instead for an independent establishment.  The choice of
words likely was more informed than unconsidered, because
Congress  debated  proposals  to make  the Postal Service  a
Government  corporation  before  it enacted  the PRA.  See
H. R. Rep. No. 91-1104, p. 6 (1970).
As we  have  noted,  the  PRA refers  in explicit  terms  to
various federal statutes and specifies that the Postal Service
is  exempt  from  some  and  subject  to  others.  39  U. S. C.
§§ 409-410.  It makes no mention of the Sherman Act or the
antitrust laws, however.  The silence leads to no helpful in-
ference one way or the other on the issue before us; but the
other considerations we have  discussed  lead us to  say that
absent an express statement from Congress  that the Postal
Service can be sued for antitrust violations despite its status
as an independent establishment of the Government  of the

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
United States, the PRA does not subject the Postal Service
to antitrust liability.
Our  conclusion  is  consistent with  the nationwide,  public
responsibilities  of the  Postal  Service.  The  Postal Service
has different goals, obligations, and powers from private cor-
porations.  Its  goals  are  not  those  of private  enterprise.
The most important difference is that it does not seek profits,
but only to break even, 39 U. S. C. § 3621, which is consistent
with  its public  character.  It also has  broader  obligations,
including the provision  of universal mail  delivery, the pro-
vision  of free  mail  delivery  to  certain  classes  of persons,
§§3201-3405,  and,  most  recently, increased  public  respon-
sibilities  related  to  national  security.  Finally, the  Postal
Service has many powers more characteristic of Government
than of private enterprise, including its state-conferred  mo-
nopoly on mail  delivery, the power of eminent domain,  and
the power to conclude international postal agreements.
On  the other hand, but in ways still relevant to the non-
applicability  of  the  antitrust  laws  to  the  Postal  Service,
its  powers  are  more  limited  than  those  of  private  busi-
nesses.  It lacks the prototypical means of engaging in anti-
competitive behavior:  the power to set prices.  This is true
both as a matter of mechanics, because pricing decisions are
made  with  the  participation  of the  separate  Postal  Rate
Commission, and as a matter of substance, because price de-
cisions  are  governed  by principles  other than profitability.
See supra, at 740-741.  Similarly, before  it can close a post
office,  it  must provide  written reasons,  and  its  decision  is
subject  to  reversal  by  the  Commission  for  arbitrariness,
abuse  of discretion,  failure to follow  procedures,  or lack  of
evidence.  § 404.  The Postal Service's public characteristics
and responsibilities  indicate  it should be treated  under the
antitrust  laws  as  part  of the  Government  of the  United
States, not a market participant separate from it.
The  Postal Service  does  operate  nonpostal lines  of busi-
ness, for which  it is free  to  set prices  independent  of the

