

232  AMERICAN TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL  OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
allegation of slamming in respondents amended complaint;'
in the District Court, AT&T's trial counsel took issue with
respondent's  effort  to make  slamming  "a big part of this
case,"  id., at 2170, and said in closing argument that slam-
ming "is the basis for  this intentional  interference"  claim,
id., at 2921;  and nothing in the jury instructions  remotely
suggested that the tort claim required proof of broken prom-
ises by AT&T to provide additional services.  Respondents
evidence easily fits within the definition of intentional inter-
ference set forth in the jury charge:
"COT asserts  that AT&T intentionally interfered  with
its business  relations  and  expectations  of future  busi-
ness relations  with its customers,  the end users  of its
SDN  service.  In order to prevail on this claim,  COT
must prove by a  preponderance  of the  evidence, one,
that COT had business relations with the probability of
future  economic  benefit.  Two,  that AT&T  was  aware
of the relationships  and expectation  of future benefits.
Three,  that AT&T intentionally interfered with  COT's
business relations.  Four, that AT&T interfered for an
improper  motive  or by using  improper means.  And,
five, that COT suffered  economic  injury as  a result of
the interference."  App. 71.
It may be the fact that the billing disclosures  and  slam-
ming were the consequence of negligence rather than a delib-
erate plan to take over a network of customers that respond-
ent  had  developed, but  the jury concluded  otherwise.  It
found that petitioner acted intentionally and willfully in in-
terfering  with  respondents  business  relations.  See ibid.2
That finding is doubly significant.
I" [D]espite repeated requests by COT to AT&T, AT&T failed to rectify
incidents of unauthorized changes made in the designated carriers ('slam-
ming') of COT's customers."  App. 28.
2 The jury's $13  million  damages  award,  reduced by the Magistrate
Judge to $1.154  million, did not differentiate between the contract and
tort claims.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
First, as the Court acknowledges,  ante, at 228, the jury's
finding precludes  a defense based on the provisions of the
tariff that purport to limit petitioner's liability.  Second, and
of greater importance, it determines that the most egregious
tortious conduct was  not merely derivative  of the contract
violations.  Enforcement  of respondent's state-law right to
be free  from tortious  interference  with  business  relations
does not somehow award respondent an unlawful preference
that should have been specified in the tariff (presumably in
return for an added fee or higher rate); it instead gives effect
to a generally applicable right that petitioner is required, by
state law, to respect in dealing with  all others, customers
and noncustomers alike.  Thus, at least some of the tortious
interference occurred independently  of the customer-carrier
relationship and would have been actionable even if respond-
ent had never entered into a contract with AT&T.
The Court correctly states that the filed rate doctrine will
pre-empt some tort claims, but we have never before applied
that harsh doctrine to bar relief for tortious conduct with so
little connection to, or effect upon, the relationship governed
by the tariff.  To the extent respondent's tort claim is based
on petitioner's billing disclosures and slamming practices, it
neither  challenges the carrier's filed rates, as did the anti-
trust claim in Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260
U. S.  156  (1922),  nor seeks a  special service  or privilege  of
the sort requested in cases such as Chicago & Alton R. Co.
v. Kirby, 225  U. S.  155  (1912),  and  Davis v. Cornwell, 264
U. S.  560 (1924).  More akin to this case is Nader v. Alle-
gheny Airlines, Inc., 426  U. S. 290, 300 (1976),  in which we
held that a common-law tort action for fraudulent misrepre-
sentation against a federally regulated air carrier could "co-
exist" with the Federal Aviation Act.  To a limited degree
it may be said that here, as in Nader, "any impact on rates
that may result from the imposition of tort liability or from
practices adopted by a carrier to avoid such liability would
be merely incidental."  Ibid.  If the Communications Act's

NEW PAGE

234  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE,  INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
saving clause 3 means anything, it preserves state-law reme-
dies against carriers on facts such as these.
The District Court and the Court of Appeals never consid-
ered whether respondent's tort claim is wholly derivative of
its contract  claim  for purposes  of the filed  rate  doctrine,
because those courts mistakenly believed that even the con-
tract claim was not covered by the doctrine.  On my own
reading of the record, I think it clear that a portion of the
tort claim is not pre-empted.  The Court should therefore
remand the case for a new trial rather than ordering judg-
ment outright for AT&T.4
Although  the Court holds broadly that respondent's  tort
claim is totally barred, it declines to consider whether a por-
tion of the claim might survive on remand because this issue
was  not part of the question presented in the petition for
certiorari  and  was  not  specifically  raised  by  respondent.
Ante, at 226-227, n. 2.  The latter point is wholly irrelevant,
precisely  because  of the scope  of the  question  presented.
The only question that we agreed to decide was whether the
filed rate  doctrine  pre-empts  "state-law contract  and  tort
claims  based  on  a  common  carrier's  failure  to  honor  an
alleged side agreement  to give its customer better service
than called for by the carrier's tariff."  Pet. for Cert. i.  The
Court  answers  that  legal  question,  and  then  decides  an
additional, factual  one:  whether respondent's tort claim  is
"based on" AT&T's "failure to honor an alleged side agree-
ment,"  and  thus is  "wholly  derivative"  of the  pre-empted
contract  claim.  In resolving that issue,  the Court cannot
3 "Nothing in this chapter contained shall in any way abridge or alter
the remedies now existing at common law or by statute, but the provisions
of this chapter are in addition to such remedies."  47 U. S. C. ยง414.
4 Beyond the billing disclosures and slamming, respondent asserts that
AT&T also misappropriated customer information from respondents con-
fidential data base.  Brief for Respondent 4.  That basis for a tort remedy,
if supported by sufficient evidence, would also appear not to be pre-empted
by the filed rate doctrine.

