

410  NATIONAL RAILROAD  PASSENGER CORPORATION  v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
Railroad  Passenger  Corporation,  requiring  conveyance  of
48.8  miles  of railroad  track  from  respondent  Boston  and
Maine Corporation (B&M) to the Corporation.  In these con-
solidated  cases we must decide  whether the ICC's decision
was  based  on  a  reasonable  interpretation  and  application
of § 402(d)  of the  Rail  Passenger  Service  Act,  45  U. S. C.
§ 562(d), the statute the Corporation invoked in the proceed-
ing.  We hold the ICC's decision is authorized by the statute,
and so reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia  Circuit, which  set aside  the Commis-
sion's action.
I
The National Railroad Passenger Corporation, or Amtrak,
is a private, for-profit corporation created by Congress in the
Rail Passenger Service Act of 1970 (RPSA), Pub. L. 91-518,
84 Stat. 1328, 45 U. S. C. § 501 et seq.  The purpose of Am-
trak is to provide  modern  and  efficient  intercity and  com-
muter rail  passenger  service.  §§501,  541.  Amtrak  is not
an agency  or instrumentality  of the United  States Govern-
ment,  § 541,  but it has  been  supported  over the years  by
congressional  appropriations.  Most of Amtrak's passenger
trains  run over existing track systems owned  and  used by
freight  railroads.  In  the RPSA  Congress  authorized  Am-
trak to enter into "trackage rights" agreements which would
allow  Amtrak  to  use  those  tracks.  When  Amtrak  and  a
freight railroad  are unable to agree on the terms of such an
agreement, Amtrak may request the ICC to order the track
to be provided on reasonable terms.  § 562(a).
In  1973  Congress  amended  the RPSA to add  subsection
(d) of § 402, 45  U. S. C. § 562(d).  Section 562(d) provides in
pertinent part:
"(1)  If the Corporation [Amtrak] and a railroad are un-
able to agree upon terms for the sale to the Corporation
of property  (including interests in property) owned by
the railroad  and  required  for  intercity  rail  passenger

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
service, the Corporation  may apply to the Commission
[ICC] for an order establishing the need of the Corpo-
ration for the property at issue and requiring the con-
veyance thereof from the railroad to the Corporation on
reasonable terms and conditions, including just compen-
sation.  Unless the Commission finds that-
"(A)  conveyance  of  the  property  to  the  Corporation
would  significantly  impair the ability of the railroad to
carry out its obligations as a common carrier; and
"(B)  the obligations of the Corporation  to provide mod-
ern, efficient, and economical rail passenger service can
adequately be met by the acquisition of alternative prop-
erty (including interests in property) which is available
for sale on reasonable terms to the Corporation, or avail-
able to the Corporation by the exercise of its authority
under section 545(d) of this title,
"the need  of the Corporation  for the property shall be
deemed  to  be  established  and  the  Commission  shall
order the conveyance of the property to the Corporation
on such reasonable terms and conditions as it may pre-
scribe, including just compensation."
Amtrak may condemn  nonrail  property under a  somewhat
similar provision, § 545(d), a statute not at issue here.
The  Amtrak  train  the "Montrealer"  began offering  pas-
senger service between  Washington, D. C., and Montreal in
1972.  In parts of Massachusetts, Vermont, and New Hamp-
shire the train used the tracks of the Connecticut River Line
(Conn River Line), portions of which are owned by B&M and
other portions by the Central Vermont Railroad (CV).  B&M
and CV have operated freight trains on the Conn River Line
under reciprocal  "trackage  rights" agreements  dating back
to 1930.
In 1977 Amtrak entered into a "trackage rights" agreement
with B&M under which B&M agreed to maintain its portions
of the Conn River Line.  Those portions include a 48.8-mile

NEW PAGE

412  NATIONAL  RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
segment of track on the Conn River Line between  Brattle-
boro and Windsor, Vermont.  This is the segment of track at
issue here.  At first the arrangement to maintain the track
proceeded well, but in the early 1980's problems developed.
Guilford Transportation Industries, Inc., purchased B&M out
of bankruptcy, and purchased also a railroad operating a par-
allel line.  Amtrak's claim  is that neglect  of track mainte-
nance  resulting  from this  purchase  caused  delays  in  Mon-
trealer  service.  Maintenance  of  the  Brattleboro-Windsor
track was so poor that at points the train was slowed to five
miles  an  hour.  Negotiations  for  better  maintenance  were
unsuccessful.  In April  1987  Amtrak  was forced  to discon-
tinue its Montrealer service.
Congress responded to these events in July 1987 by appro-
priating $5 million to upgrade the Montrealer route.  Act of
July  11,  1987,  Pub. L.  100-71,  101  Stat. 447-448.  Amtrak
decided not to spend the money to upgrade the Conn River
Line  while  B&M continued  to own it, because  in Amtrak's
view B&M  could  not be relied  upon  to maintain  the track
once  restored.  Amtrak  began  negotiations  with  CV  and,
in  early  1988,  reached  a  preliminary  agreement.  Amtrak
promised to use its statutory condemnation power to acquire
the 48.8 miles  of track in question, to at once reconvey the
track  to CV, and  to  provide  up to $3.1  million  to  upgrade
and  rehabilitate  the segment.  In  return, CV promised  to
provide  the  balance of the funds  necessary  to upgrade  the
track, to maintain the track for 20 years in a condition meet-
ing Amtrak's standards, to grant Amtrak trackage rights for
20  years,  and  to  grant B&M  trackage  rights  to  serve  its
existing customers.  As a prerequisite  to invoking § 562(d),
Amtrak made an offer to B&M to purchase the segment for
$1 million, on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.  B&M offered to ne-
gotiate the terms under which it would be willing to upgrade
the segment and stated:  "II]t appears  clear that there is no
need to pursue the very complex 'offer to purchase' set forth
in your letter."  App. 60.  B&M's refusal to accept the offer

