

788  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
SOUTER, J., concurring in judgment
[association]  companies  were  threatened  with  boycotts  and
withdrawal of all patronage."  322 U. S., at 535-536.  Faced
with such a list, and with all of the other instances  in which
we have used  the term "boycott,"  we  rightly came  to the
conclusion in Barry that, as used in our cases, the term does
not  refer to  a  "'unitary  phenomenon.'  438  U. S.,  at 543
(quoting P. Areeda, Antitrust Analysis 381 (2d ed. 1974)).
The question in this litigation is whether the alleged activ-
ities  of  the domestic  defendants,  acting  together with  the
foreign defendants who are not petitioners here, include "en-
forcement activities" that would raise the  claimed attempts
to  fix  terms  to the level  of § 3(b) boycotts..  I  believe they
do.  The core of the plaintiffs' allegations against the domes-
tic defendants concern those activities that form the basis of
the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Claims for Relief in the
California  Complaint,  and  the  Second  Claim  for  Relief in
the  Connecticut  Complaint:  the conspiracies  involving both
the primary insurers and domestic and foreign brokers and re-
insurers to force changes in the ISO CGL forms.  According
to the complaints, primary insurer defendants  Hartford and
Allstate first tried to convince other members of the ISO that
the ISO CGL forms should be changed to limit coverage in the
manner  we  have  detailed  above,  see  supra, at  773-774;
but  they failed  to persuade  a  majority of members  of the
relevant  ISO committees,  and the  changes  were not made.
Unable to persuade  other primary insurers to agree volun-
tarily to their terms, Hartford and Allstate, joined by Aetna
and CIGNA, sought the aid of other individuals and entities
who were not members of ISO, and who would not ordinarily
be parties to an agreement setting the terms of primary in-
surance,  not being  in the  business  of selling it.  The  four
primary  insurers  convinced  these  individuals  and  entities,
the  reinsurers,  to  put  pressure  on  ISO  and  its  members
by refusing to reinsure  coverages written  on the ISO CGL
forms until the desired changes were made.  Both domestic
and foreign reinsurers, acting at the behest of the four pri-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
SOUTER, J., concurring in judgment
mary  insurers,  announced  that  they  would  not  reinsure
under the ISO CGL forms until changes were made.  As an
immediate result of this pressure, ISO decided  to include a
retroactive-date provision in its claims-made form, and to ex-
clude all pollution coverage  from both its  claims-made  and
occurrence forms.  In sum, the four primary insurers solic-
ited refusals to deal from outside the primary insurance in-
dustry as a means of forcing their fellow primary insurers to
agree to their terms;  the outsiders, acting at the behest  of
the four, in fact refused to deal with primary insurers until
they capitulated, which, in part at least, they did.
This  pattern of activity  bears  a  striking resemblance  to
the first act of boycott listed by the South-Eastern Under-
writers Court;  although neither  the South-Eastern Under-
writers opinion,  nor  the underlying  indictment,  see  Tran-
script of Record, 0. T. 1943,  No. 354, p. 11  (  22(e)), details
exactly how the defendants  managed to  "cut off [nonmem-
bers] from the opportunity to reinsure their risks," 322 U. S.,
at 535, the defendants could have done so by prompting rein-
surance companies  to refuse to deal with nonmembers, just
as is  alleged here.16   Moreover,  the activity  falls  squarely
16The majority claims that this refusal to deal was a boycott only be-
cause "membership in the association [had]  no discernible bearing upon
the  terms of the refused  reinsurance contracts."  Post, at 809.  Testi-
mony at the hearings on the bill that became the McCarran-Ferguson Act
indicates that the insurance companies thought otherwise.  "We say 'You
do not issue insurance to a company that does not do business the way we
think it should be done and belong to our association.'  . . . It is for the
protection of the public, the stockholders, and the companies....  You know
when those large risks are taken that they have to be reinsured.  We do
not want to have to take a risk that is bad, or at an improper rate, or an
excessive commission, we do not want our agents to take that, nor do we
want to reinsure part of the risk that is written that way.  We feel this
way-that some groups are doing business in what is not the proper way,
we feel it is not in the interest of the companies and it is not in the interest
of the public, and we just do not want to do business with them."  Joint
Hearing on S. 1362, H. R. 3269, and H. R. 3270 before the Subcommittees
of the  Senate Committee  on the Judiciary, 78th Cong.,  1st Sess., pt. 2,

NEW PAGE

790  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
SOUTER, J., concurring in judgment
within even the narrow theory of the § 3(b) exception Justice
Stewart advanced in dissent in Barry.  Under that theory,17
the § 3(b) exception should be limited to "attempts by mem-
bers  of the insurance  business  to  force  other  members  to
follow the industry's private rules and practices."  438 U. S.,
at  565.  I  can  think  of no  better  description  of the  four
primary  insurers'  activities  in  this  litigation.  For  these
reasons,  I agree  with the Court's ultimate  conclusion  that
the Court of Appeals was correct  in reversing  the District
Court's  dismissal  of the  First, Second,  Third,  and  Fourth
Claims for Relief in the California Complaint, and the Second
Claim for Relief in the Connecticut Complaint.8
p. 333 (1943) (statement of Edward L. Williams, President, Insurance Ex-
ecutives Association).
17I n passing the McCarran-Ferguson Act, Justice Stewart argued, "Con-
gress plainly wanted to allow the States to authorize anticompetitive prac-
tices which they determined to be in the public interest."  St. Paul Fire &
Marine Ins. Co. v. Barry, 438 U. S. 531,  565 (1978)  (dissenting opinion).
Hence, § 2(b) provides that the federal antitrust laws will generally not be
applicable to those insurance business practices "regulated by State law,"
and presumably state law could, for example, either mandate price fixing,
or specifically authorize voluntary price-fixing agreements.  On the other
hand, Congress intended to delegate regulatory power only to the States;
nothing in the McCarran-Ferguson  Act suggests that Congress wanted
one insurer, or a group of insurers, to be able to formulate and enforce
policy for other insurers.  Thus, the enforcement  activities that distin-
guish §3(b) "boycotts" from other concerted activity include, in this con-
text, "private enforcement ...  of industry rules and practices,  even if
those rules and practices are permitted by state law."  Id., at 565-566
(emphasis in original) (footnote omitted).
"'The First and Sixth Claims for Relief in the Connecticut Complaint,
and the Seventh Claim for Relief in the California Complaint, which also
name  some  or all  of the  petitioners,  present special  cases.  The First
Claim for Relief in the Connecticut Complaint alleges an overarching con-
spiracy involving all of the defendants named in the complaint and all of
the conduct alleged.  As such, it encompasses  "boycott" activity, and the
Court of Appeals was correct to reverse the District Court's order dismiss-
ing it.  As currently described in the complaint's statement of facts, how-
ever, some  of the actions  of the reinsurers  and the  retrocessional rein-
surers appear to have been taken independently, rather than at the behest

