

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U. S.  179
173  Opinion of the Court.
were  made  by  the  Santa  Fe  with  the  holders  of  the
remaining 18%  of the Western stock.
On June 28, 1955, the Santa Fe entered into a contract
to  sell to  the Pennsylvania  Company,  a  wholly owned
subsidiary of Pennsylvania, 50o of the outstanding cap-
ital  stock  of  Western  at  $135  per  share,4  subject  to
approval of the Commission.
On  July  8,  1955,  the  Santa  Fe  and  Pennsylvania
Company  and  its  parent,  Pennsylvania,  applied  to  the
Commission  under  ยง 5 (2)  of  the  Act5  for  approval  of
4 The  contract  of June  28,  1955,  between  the Santa  Fe  and the
Pennsylvania  Company  provided  that it was  without  prejudice  to
any  claims, causes of action or rights which Pennsylvania may have
against the trustees of the McNear estate with respect to the letter
commitment of April 15, 1955, for the sale by the trustees to Pennsyl-
vania of 26%  of the Western stock;  and that, in the event Pennsyl-
vania should acquire from the trustees, under that letter commitment,
all or any part of such shares, the obligation of the Santa Fe under
the contract to  sell  Western  shares to  the Pennsylvania  Company
was to be reduced accordingly.  It  appears  that litigation was then,
and  is  yet,  pending  by Pennsylvania  against  the trustees  for  the
enforcement of the letter commitment  of April 15,  1955.
The contract also contained a covenant which, in essence, provided
that  (1)  Western  "will  continue to be  operated  as a separate  and
independent  carrier with  responsible management  located  along its
lines in order to preserve  to shippers  and communities  the present
direct access  to  its officials,"  (2)  that Western's  properties  will  be
maintained and improved,  (3)  that Western "will  continue to main-
tain  its own  solicitation  forces  and will  be  entirely  free  to  solicit
traffic  in  such  manner as  best  to serve  the interests  of"  Western,
(4)  that all "existing routes and channels of trade via [Western]  will
be  maintained  and  kept open without  discrimination  between  con-
necting lines  of railroad,"  and  (5)  that the  Board of  Directors of
Western  shall  consist  of  11  members,  of  whom  one  shall  be  the
president of the company, two shall be officers of the Santa Fe, two
shall be  officers of the Pennsylvania Company, or Pennsylvania,  or
both, and the remaining six shall be prominent citizens not connected
with  either  of  the  parties  but  selected  by  them  through  mutual
agreement.
5 See note  1.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion  of the Court.  361 U.S.
those stock purchase agreements and the consequent joint
control  of  Western.  The  Minneapolis  intervened  and
objected  to  the  application,  as  did  also  the  States  of
Minnesota  and South  Dakota and  their respective  pub-
lic service regulatory conmissions.
Thereafter,  on  October  13,  1955,  the  Minneapolis
applied to the Commission, under tWe same section of the
Act,  for  authority  to  acquire  sole  control  of  Western,
expressing  its  willingness  to  enter  into  contracts  vith
Western's stockholders to purchase their stock at the same
price  and on the same terms as set forth in their existing
contracts with the Santa Fe.  The Santa Fe, the Pennsyl-
vania Company ,and Pennsylvania intervened in the latter
proceeding and objected  to the Minneapolis  application.
On  motion  of  Minneapolis,  the  Commission  consoli-
dated the two proceedings.  Thereafter, seven other rail-
roads having interchange connections with Western's line
intervened.  Two of them sought authority, at all events,'
and  two  others  of them  sought authority, under  stated
conditions,'  to participate,  under  ยง 5 (2) (d)  of  the Act,
6 The New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company  ("Nickel
Plate")  and the Chicago,  Rock Island & Pacific  Railroad Company
("Rock  Island")  sought  authority,  under .ยง5  (2) (d)  of  the  Act
(see  note  1),  to  be  included  in the-acquisition  of  Western's  stock
on an  equal basis with the successful applicant  or applicants.
7 The Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company ("Burling-
ton")'  and  the  Wabash  Railroad  Company. ("Wabash")  did  not
object  to approval  of  the Santa  Fe Pennsylvania application,  pro-
vided the order required continuation of present routes and channels
of trade via existing junctions and gateways and of all existing traffic
and  operating  relations  and  arrangements,  but  they asked,  in  the
event  any  railroad  other  than  the Santa  Fe and  Pennsylvania  be
authorized to acquire an interest in Western's stock, that they, too,
be authorized to participate  therein to the same extent as any such
other railroad.
The Illinois  Central  Railroad  Company  ("Illinois  Central"),  the
Gulf, Mobile  & Ohio Railroad Company  ("Gulf")  and the Chicago
& North Western Railway Company  ("North Western")  asked that,

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  181
173  Opinion of  the Court.
in the acquisition of the Western stock on an equal basis
with  the successful applicant.  The State of Illinois,  18
cities or towns and seven chambers  of commerce located
on or along  Western's line, two  labor organizations  rep-
resenting  Western's  employees,  and  a  large  number  of
shippers over Western's line, intervened in support of the
Santa  Fe-Pennsylvania application  and in opposition to
the Minneapolis  application.
After an extended consolidated hearing before him, the
Commission's  examiner iqsued  a proposed report recom-
mending  approval  of the  Santa Fe-Pennsylvania  appli-
cation  and  dismissal. of  the  Minneapolis  application.
Thereafter, upon exceptions, and briefs and arguments in
their  support, Division  4 of  the  Commission  issued  its
report.  It  was confronted,  as it said, with four alterna-
tive proposals,  (1)  for  authorization  of joint control of
Western  by' the  Santa  Fe  and  Pennsylvania,  (2)  for
authorization of sole control by the Minneapolis,  (3)  for
authorization of two other railroads, at all events, and of
two more railroads, under stated conditions, to participate
in  the acquisition of the Western stock on an equal basis
with  the  successful  applicant,8  and  (4)  denial  of  both
applications.
The  Commission  observed  that  "[t]hese  proceedings
represent a new and more complicated phase in the admin-
istration of section 5, since  [they involve]  2 applications
for authority to control the same property, and petitions
by. 4 other carriers  for inclusion  in the transaction under
varying circumstances."  It recognized that, under ยง 5 (2)
if either application be approved, the order be conditioned to require
the maintenance of all routes and channels of trade via existing gate-
ways.  The Monon  Railroad  Company asked  that  if the Santa  Fe-
Pennsylvania application  be  approved,  the order contain a  require-
ment that Pennsylvania shall grant to it certain trackage rights, and,
if not done, that the Santa Fe-Pennsylvania  application be denied.
8 See notes 6 and 7.

