

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
seems to have been  anticipated by Amtrak and CV, as indi-
cated  by an  internal  CV Memorandum  written in January
1988.  App. 94.
Interpreting the B&M communication as a rejection of its
offer, Amtrak instituted this proceeding before  the ICC to
compel  conveyance  of the track.  CVfiled  a  simultaneous
request for an exemption from ICC regulation for its acquisi-
tion of the segment upon reconveyance from Amtrak.
B&M assessed  the transaction as a significant shift in its
long competition  with  CV  for freight  traffic.  CV  already
owned large parts of the Conn River Line and after the pro-
posed  transaction  it would  own most of it.  Though  B&M
would have trackage rights, CV would gain not only owner-
ship of the segment, but also the right to obtain new custom-
ers on its route.  B&M alleged  this gave a new advantage
to  CV's  corporate  parent,  the Canadian  National  Railway
Company, for each railroad links up with competing compa-
nies in Canada.  CV's lines link to Canadian National, while
B&M's lines link to the Canadian Pacific, Ltd., Canadian Na-
tional's competitor.  B&M challenged the transaction as sim-
ply a device to shift ownership among railroads, not to give
ownership to Amtrak, which, B&M argued, was the sole pur-
pose of the condemnation provision.
B&M filed initial objections to the § 562(d) proceeding  on
two grounds:  that Amtrak had  not shown  that the  parties
were unable to agree on reasonable terms of sale, and that
§ 562(d)  did  not  authorize  condemnation  of  railroad  lines.
The ICC rejected  B&M's arguments  and in a condemnation
proceeding held that Amtrak had shown the inability of the
parties to agree to terms.  It ruled that § 562(d) covers rail-
road  tracks because  tracks are  "rail property 'required  for
intercity rail passenger service."'  App. to Pet. for Cert. in
No.  90-1419,  pp. 130a-133a.  B&M  next sought to convert
the  proceeding  into  a  trackage  rights  proceeding  under
§ 562(a), but the ICC again rejected B&M's position, holding
that Amtrak had an "election  of remedies"  under § 562 and

NEW PAGE

414  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
so had no obligation to seek trackage rights under subsection
(a) before invoking subsection (d).  Id., at 115a-116a.  Mean-
while, CV and the States of Vermont and Massachusetts,  as
well as numerous other parties, intervened  in the ICC pro-
ceeding.  (CV appears as a petitioner before this Court, and
Vermont and Massachusetts  support petitioners.)
This  was  the  first decided  case involving  Amtrak's  con-
demnation powers under § 562(d).  Id., at 39a.  The  ICC is-
sued its final decision in 1988 and ordered conveyance of the
segment  with  just  compensation  of  $2,373,286.  It  reaf-
firmed earlier rulings and found that Amtrak "ha[d] met the
statutory criteria for the institution of a proceeding" under
§ 562(d).  Id., at 40a-42a, 81a.
The ICC concluded that the presumption of Amtrak's need
for the track contained in § 562(d)(1)  was applicable.  In its
view both statutory criteria must be  met to rebut the pre-
sumption,  and  B&M  had  established  neither.  As  to alter-
native property (subsection (B)), the ICC found that no rea-
sonable alternative route existed for the Montrealer service.
And as to significant  impairment of B&M's ability to carry
out its common carrier obligations (subsection (A)), the ICC
found that because  B&M had been awarded just compensa-
tion  and  could  continue  to  serve  its  customers  under the
"trackage  rights"  agreement  which  was  part of the trans-
action,  its ability  had not been  impaired.  Id.,  at 45a-46a.
The bulk of the ICC's final  decision deals with the question
of just compensation,  which  is not before  this Court.  See
infra, at 424.
On  petition for  review, a  divided  panel  of the  Court of
Appeals  for  the  District  of Columbia  Circuit  granted  the
petition  and  remanded  the  matter  to  the  ICC  for further
proceedings.  286  U. S.  App. D. C.  1, 911  F. 2d  743 (1990).
The majority held that § 562(d)  does not permit Amtrak to
condemn railroad  property which it intends  to reconvey  to
another railroad.  It acknowledged  that the ICC had inter-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
preted § 562 in a different way, and that in the usual course
judicial deference would be given to its interpretation under
the principles enunciated in Chevron U S. A. Inc. v. Natural
Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467  U. S. 837  (1984);  but
the court concluded  that § 562(d) is unambiguous  in light of
its language and history, and so no deference was due.  The
panel majority reasoned that because Amtrak did not intend
to retain the track to be condemned, it needed only its use,
not its ownership.  As Amtrak could obtain use of the prop-
erty  by  obtaining  either  a  "trackage  rights"  agreement
under § 562(a), or by condemning an easement under § 562(d),
the entire fee  interest was not "'required  for intercity rail
passenger service."'  286  U. S. App.  D. C.,  at 8,  911  F. 2d,
at 750.  The majority stated that its holding was confirmed
by other considerations, including: (1) the potential constitu-
tional  problems,  under  the Takings  Clause,  raised  by  the
ICC's  interpretation  of § 562(d);  (2)  the structure  of §562,
which indicated an intent on the part of Congress to relegate
Amtrak to trackage rights under § 562(a) when seeking only
the  use  of  track;  and  (3)  Congress'  policy  against  cross-
subsidization between sectors of the railroad industry, which
the majority  concluded  would  have been  violated  by  this
transaction.  Judge Ruth B. Ginsburg concurred  separately,
rejecting  the  majority's  interpretation  of the  statute, but
concluding that a remand to the ICC was necessary because
the  ICC  had  not  made  adequate  findings  to  determine
whether Amtrak  in  fact  needed  to  shift ownership  of the
segment from B&M  to CV to protect its interests.  Id., at
11-13, 911 F. 2d, at 753-755.  This factual question, whether
Amtrak's  portrayal  of a  recalcitrant  B&M  is accurate,  re-
mains  in  dispute.  Under  our resolution  of the case, how-
ever, the issue need not be reached.
Amtrak  and  the  ICC  ified  petitions  for  rehearing,  and
while the petitions were pending Congress amended § 562(d).
The amendment, adopted in specific response to the Court of

