547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
CASES ADJUDGED 
IN THE 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 2005

TEXACO INC. v. DAGHER et al. 
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the ninth circuit 
No. 04–805.  Argued January 10, 2006—Decided February 28, 2006* 
Petitioners, Texaco Inc. and Shell Oil Co., collaborated in a joint venture, 
Equilon Enterprises, to reﬁne and sell gasoline in the western United 
States under the two companies’ original brand names.  After Equilon 
set a single price for both brands, respondents, Texaco and Shell Oil 
service station owners, brought suit alleging that, by unifying gas prices 
under the two brands, petitioners had violated the per se rule against 
price ﬁxing long recognized under § 1 of the Sherman Act, see, e. g., 
Catalano, Inc. v. Target Sales, Inc., 446 U. S. 643, 647.  Granting peti­
tioners summary judgment, the District Court determined that the rule 
of reason, rather than a per se rule, governs respondents’ claim, and 
that, by eschewing rule of reason analysis, respondents had failed to 
raise a triable issue of fact.  The Ninth Circuit reversed, characterizing 
petitioners’ position as a request for an exception to the per se price­
ﬁxing prohibition, and rejecting that request. 
Held: It is not per se illegal under § 1 of the Sherman Act for a lawful, 
economically integrated  joint venture to set  the prices at  which it 
sells its products.  Although § 1 prohibits “[e]very contract [or] com­
bination . . . i n  restraint  of  trade,”  15  U. S. C.  § 1, this  Court  has 
not taken a literal approach to that language, recognizing, instead, that 
*Together with No. 04–814, Shell Oil Co. v. Dagher et al., also on certio­
rari to the same court. 
1 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
2  TEXACO INC. v. DAGHER 
Syllabus 
Congress intended to outlaw only unreasonable restraints, e. g., State 
Oil Co. v. Khan, 522 U. S. 3, 10.  Under rule of reason analysis, antitrust 
plaintiffs must demonstrate that a particular contract or combination is 
in fact unreasonable and anticompetitive.  See, e. g., id., at 10–19.  Per 
se liability is reserved for “plainly anticompetitive” agreements.  Na­
tional Soc. of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 
692.  While “horizontal” price-ﬁxing agreements between two or more 
competitors are per se unlawful, see, e. g., Catalano, supra, at 647, this 
litigation does not present such an agreement, because Texaco and Shell 
Oil did not compete with one another in the relevant market—i. e., gaso­
line sales to western service stations—but instead participated in that 
market jointly through Equilon.  When those who would otherwise be 
competitors pool their capital and share the risks of loss and opportuni­
ties for proﬁt, they are regarded as a single ﬁrm competing with other 
sellers in the market.  Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Soc., 457 
U. S. 332, 356.  As such, Equilon’s pricing policy may be price ﬁxing in 
a literal sense, but it is not price ﬁxing in the antitrust sense.  The 
court below erred in reaching the opposite conclusion under the ancil­
lary restraints doctrine, which governs the validity of restrictions im­
posed by a legitimate joint venture on nonventure activities.  That doc­
trine has no application here, where the challenged business practice 
involves the core activity of the joint venture itself—the pricing of the 
very goods produced and sold by Equilon.  Pp. 5–8. 
369 F. 3d 1108, reversed. 
Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Mem­
bers joined, except Alito, J., who took no part in the consideration or 
decision of the cases. 
Glen D. Nager argued the cause for petitioners in both 
cases.  With him on the briefs for petitioner in No. 04–805 
were Craig E. Stewart, Joe Sims, and Louis K. Fisher.  On 
the briefs for petitioner in No. 04–814 were Ronald L. Olson, 
Bradley S. Phillips, Stuart N. Senator, and Paul J. Watford. 
Jeffrey P. Minear argued the cause for the United States 
as amicus curiae urging reversal in both cases.  With him 
on the brief were Solicitor General Clement, Acting Assist­
ant Attorney General  Barnett,  Deputy  Solicitor  General 
Hungar, Catherine G. O’Sullivan, and Adam D. Hirsh. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 1 (2006)  3 
Opinion of the Court 
Joseph M. Alioto argued the cause for respondents in both 
cases.  With him on the brief were Daniel R. Shulman and 
Gregory Merz.† 
Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court. 
From 1998 until 2002, petitioners Texaco Inc. and Shell Oil 
Co. collaborated in a joint venture, Equilon Enterprises, to 
reﬁne and sell gasoline in the western United States under 
the original Texaco and Shell Oil brand names.  Respond­
ents, a class of Texaco and Shell Oil service station owners, 
allege that petitioners engaged in unlawful price ﬁxing when 
Equilon set a single price for both Texaco and Shell Oil brand 
gasoline.  We granted certiorari to determine whether it is 
per se illegal under § 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1, 
for a lawful, economically integrated joint venture to set the 
prices at which the joint venture sells its products.  We con­
clude that it is not, and accordingly we reverse the contrary 
judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
I 
Historically, Texaco and Shell Oil have competed with one 
another in the national and international oil and gasoline 
†Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in both cases were ﬁled for the 
American Bankers Association et al. by W. Stephen Smith and Beth S. 
Brinkmann; for the American Petroleum Institute by Robert A. Long, Jr., 
Harry M. Ng, and Douglas W. Morris; for the Chamber of Commerce of 
the United States of America by Raymond A. Jacobsen, Jr., Stephen A. 
Bokat, Robin S. Conrad, and Amar D. Sarwal; for Verizon Communica­
tions Inc. by Roy T. Englert, Jr., Donald J. Russell, John Thorne, and 
Paul J. Larkin, Jr.; and for Visa U. S. A. Inc. et al. by M. Laurence Popof­
sky and Stephen V. Bomse. 
Stephen F. Ross ﬁled a brief for the American Antitrust Institute as 
amicus curiae urging afﬁrmance in both cases. 
Briefs of amici curiae were ﬁled in both cases for the Northwest Ohio 
Physician Specialists Cooperative, LLC, by Charles D. Weller and Freder­
ick Byers; and for the Retail Industry Leaders Association et al. by Lloyd 
Constantine and Michelle A. Peters.  Steve C. Vaughn ﬁled a brief for the 
Parker Hanniﬁn Corp. as amicus curiae in No. 04–805. 

