

26  DASTAR  CORP. v. TWENTIETH  CENTURY FOX
FILM  CORP.
Opinion of the Court
called Crusade in Europe, based on  the book, and Time  as-
signed its copyright in the series to Fox.  The television se-
ries,  consisting of 26  episodes, was first broadcast  in  1949.
It combined  a soundtrack based on a narration of the book
with film footage from the United  States Army, Navy, and
Coast Guard, the British Ministry  of Information and  War
Office,  the National Film Board  of Canada, and unidentified
"Newsreel Pool Cameramen."  In 1975, Doubleday renewed
the copyright on the book as the "'proprietor  of copyright in
a work  made for hire."'  App. to Pet. for  Cert. 9a.  Fox,
however, did not renew  the copyright  on the Crusade tele-
vision  series, which  expired  in 1977, leaving the television
series in the public domain.
In  1988,  Fox reacquired  the  television  rights in  General
Eisenhower's  book, including the exclusive  right to distrib-
ute the Crusade television series on video and to sublicense
others to do so.  Respondents SFM Entertainment and New
Line Home Video, Inc., in turn, acquired from Fox the exclu-
sive  rights to distribute  Crusade on  video.  SFM obtained
the negatives of the original television series, restored them,
and  repackaged the series  on videotape;  New Line distrib-
uted the videotapes.
Enter petitioner Dastar.  In 1995,  Dastar decided to  ex-
pand its  product  line  from  music  compact  discs  to  videos.
Anticipating renewed interest in World War  II on the 50th
anniversary  of the war's  end, Dastar  released  a  video  set
entitled World War II Campaigns in Europe.  To make Cam-
paigns, Dastar purchased eight beta cam tapes of the origi-
nal version of the Crusade television series, which is in the
public  domain,  copied  them,  and  then  edited  the  series.
Dastar's Campaigns series is slightly more than half as long
as  the  original  Crusade  television  series.  Dastar  substi-
tuted a new opening sequence, credit page, and final closing
for  those  of  the  Crusade  television  series;  inserted  new
chapter-title  sequences  and  narrated  chapter introductions;
moved the  "recap" in  the  Crusade television  series  to the

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 539 U. S. 23 (2003)
Opinion of the Court
beginning and retitled it as a "preview"; and removed refer-
ences to and images of the book.  Dastar created new pack-
aging for its Campaigns series and (as already noted) a new
title.
Dastar manufactured and sold the Campaigns video set as
its  own  product.  The  advertising  states:  "Produced  and
Distributed by: Entertainment Distributing"( which is
owned  by  Dastar),  and  makes  no  reference  to  the  Cru-
sade  television  series.  Similarly, the  screen  credits  state
"DASTAR  CORP  presents"  and  "an  ENTERTAINMENT
DISTRIBUTING  Production,"  and  list  as  executive  pro-
ducer, producer, and  associate producer  employees  of
Dastar.  Supp. App. 2-3, 30.  The Campaigns videos them-
selves also make no reference to the Crusade television se-
ries, New Line's Crusade  videotapes,  or the book.  Dastar
sells its Campaigns videos to Sam's Club, Costco, Best Buy,
and other retailers and mail-order companies for $25 per set,
substantially less than New Line's video set.
In  1998,  respondents  Fox, SFM,  and  New  Line  brought
this action alleging that Dastar's sale of its Campaigns video
set infringes Doubleday's copyright in General Eisenhower's
book and, thus, their exclusive television rights in the book.
Respondents  later  amended  their  complaint  to add  claims
that Dastar's sale of Campaigns "without proper credit" to
the  Crusade  television  series  constitutes  "reverse  passing
off"'  in  violation  of  § 43(a)  of  the  Lanham  Act,  60  Stat.
441,  15  U. S. C.  § 1125(a),  and  in  violation  of state  unfair-
competition  law.  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  31a.  On  cross-
motions for summary judgment, the District Court found for
respondents on all three counts, id., at 54a-55a, treating its
1Passing off (or palming off, as it is sometimes  called)  occurs when
a producer misrepresents  his  own goods  or services as someone  else's.
See, e. g.,  0. & W. Thum Co. v. Dickinson, 245 F. 609, 621 (CA6  1917).
"Reverse passing off," as its name implies, is the opposite: The producer
misrepresents someone else's goods or services as his own.  See, e. g., Wil-
liams v. Curtiss-Wright Corp., 691 F. 2d 168, 172 (CA3 1982).

NEW PAGE

28  DASTAR  CORP. v. TWENTIETH  CENTURY  FOX
FILM CORP.
Opinion of the Court
resolution  of the  Lanham  Act  claim  as  controlling  on  the
state-law unfair-competition claim because "the ultimate test
under both is whether the public is likely to be deceived or
confused,"  id., at 54a.  The court  awarded Dastar's  profits
to  respondents  and  doubled  them  pursuant  to  § 35 of the
Lanham  Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1117(a), to deter future infringing
conduct by petitioner.
The  Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit affirmed  the
judgment for respondents on the Lanham Act claim, but re-
versed  as  to  the  copyright  claim  and  remanded.  34  Fed.
Appx. 312, 316 (2002).  (It said nothing with regard to the
state-law claim.)  With respect to the Lanham Act claim, the
Court of Appeals reasoned that "Dastar copied substantially
the entire  Crusade in Europe series created  by Twentieth
Century  Fox, labeled the resulting product with  a different
name  and  marketed  it  without  attribution  to  Fox[,  and]
therefore committed a 'bodily appropriation' of Fox's series."
Id.,  at  314.  It  concluded  that  "Dastar's  'bodily  appropri-
ation'  of  Fox's  original  [television]  series  is  sufficient  to
establish  the reverse  passing  off."  Ibid.2  The  court also
affirmed  the District Court's award under  the Lanham Act
of twice Dastar's profits.  We granted certiorari.  537 U. S.
1099 (2003).
II
The  Lanham  Act  was  intended  to  make  "actionable  the
deceptive and misleading use of marks," and "to protect per-
sons engaged  in ...  commerce  against unfair competition."
15 U. S. C. § 1127.  While much of the Lanham Act addresses
2As for the copyright claim, the Ninth Circuit held that the tax treat-
ment General Eisenhower sought for his manuscript of the book created
a triable issue as to whether he intended the book to be a work for hire,
and thus as to whether Doubleday properly renewed the copyright in 1976.
See 34  Fed. Appx.,  at 314.  The copyright issue  is still the subject  of
litigation, but is not before us.  We express no opinion as to whether peti-
tioner's product would infringe a valid copyright in General Eisenhow-
er's book.

