

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
were so low that antitrust suits themselves became a tool for
keeping prices high.
B
Liggett does not allege that Brown & Williamson  sought
to drive  it from the market but that Brown  & Williamson
sought to preserve supracompetitive profits on branded ciga-
rettes by  pressuring  Liggett to raise  its generic  cigarette
prices through a process of tacit collusion with the other cig-
arette companies.  Tacit collusion, sometimes called oligopo-
listic  price  coordination  or conscious  parallelism,  describes
the process, not in itself unlawful, by which firms in a concen-
trated market might in effect share monopoly power, setting
their prices at a profit-maximizing, supracompetitive level by
recognizing their shared economic interests and their inter-
dependence with respect to price and output decisions.  See
2 Areeda & Turner  404; Scherer & Ross 199-208.
In Matsushita,w  e remarked upon the general implausibil-
ity of predatory pricing.  See 475 U. S., at 588-590.  Matsu-
shita observed that such schemes are even more improbable
when they require  coordinated  action among several firms.
Id., at 590.  Matsushita involved an allegation of an express
conspiracy to engage in predatory pricing.  The Court noted
that in  addition  to the usual difficulties  that face  a  single
firm attempting to recoup predatory losses, other problems
render a conspiracy "incalculably  more difficult to execute."
Ibid.  In order to succeed, the conspirators must agree on
how  to allocate present losses  and future  gains  among the
firms involved, and each firm must resist powerful incentives
to cheat on whatever agreement is reached.  Ibid.
However unlikely predatory pricing by multiple firms may
be when they conspire, it is even less likely when, as here,
there is no express coordination.  Firms that seek to recoup
predatory losses through the conscious parallelism of oligop-
oly must rely on uncertain and ambiguous signals to achieve
concerted action.  The signals are subject to misinterpreta-
tion and are a blunt and imprecise means of ensuring smooth

NEW PAGE

228  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
cooperation,  especially  in  the  context  of  changing  or  un-
precedented  market  circumstances.  This  anticompetitive
minuet is most difficult to compose and to perform, even for
a disciplined oligopoly.
From  one  standpoint,  recoupment  through  oligopolistic
price  coordination could  be thought  more feasible  than re-
coupment  through  monopoly:  In  the oligopoly  setting,  the
victim  itself has an  economic  incentive  to acquiesce  in  the
scheme.  If forced to choose between cutting prices and sus-
taining losses, maintaining  prices and losing market share,
or raising prices  and enjoying  a share  of supracompetitive
profits, a firm may yield to the last alternative.  Yet on the
whole, tacit cooperation  among oligopolists must be  consid-
ered  the least  likely means  of recouping predatory  losses.
In addition to the difficulty of achieving effective tacit coor-
dination  and the high likelihood  that any attempt  to  disci-
pline will produce an outbreak of competition, the predator's
present losses in a case like this fall on it alone, while  the
later  supracompetitive  profits  must  be  shared  with  every
other oligopolist in proportion to its market share, including
the intended  victim.  In  this  case, for  example,  Brown  &
Williamson,  with its 11-12% share  of the cigarette market,
would have  had to generate  around  $9 in supracompetitive
profits for each  $1 invested  in predation;  the remaining  $8
would belong to its competitors, who had taken no risk.
Liggett suggests that these considerations  led the Court
of Appeals  to rule  out its theory  of recovery  as a  matter
of law.  Although the proper interpretation of the Court of
Appeals' opinion is not free from doubt, there is some indica-
tion that it held as a matter of law that the Robinson-Patman
Act does not reach a primary-line injury claim in which tacit
coordination  among oligopolists  provides  the  alleged basis
for  recoupment.  The  Court  of Appeals'  opinion  does  not
contain  the traditional  apparatus  of fact  review;  rather, it
focuses on theoretical and legal arguments.  The final para-
graph  appears  to  state  the holding:  Brown  & Williamson

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
may  not  be  held liable  because  oligopoly  pricing  does  not
"'provide  an  economically  rational  basis"'  for  recouping
predatory losses.  964 F. 2d, at 342.
To the extent that the Court of Appeals  may  have held
that the interdependent  pricing  of an  oligopoly  may never
provide a means for achieving recoupment  and so may not
form  the basis of a primary-line  injury claim, we disagree.
A predatory pricing scheme designed  to preserve or create
a stable oligopoly, if successful, can injure consumers in the
same way, and to the same extent, as one designed to bring
about a monopoly.  However unlikely that possibility may be
as a general matter, when the realities of the market and the
record facts  indicate that it has occurred  and was  likely to
have succeeded, theory will not stand in the way of liability.
See Eastman Kodak Co. v. Image Technical Services, Inc.,
504 U. S. 451, 466-467 (1992).
The Robinson-Patman Act, which amended § 2 of the origi-
nal Clayton Act, suggests no exclusion from coverage when
primary-line  injury  occurs  in an  oligopoly  setting.  Unlike
the provisions of the Sherman Act, which speak only of vari-
ous forms of express agreement and monopoly, see 15 U. S. C.
§§ 1, 2, the Robinson-Patman  Act is phrased in broader, dis-
junctive terms, prohibiting price discrimination  "where the
effect of such discrimination  may be substantially  to lessen
competition or tend to create a monopoly,"  15 U. S. C. § 13(a).
For all the words of the Act to carry adequate meaning, com-
petitive  injury under the Act must  extend beyond the mo-
nopoly setting.  Cf. Reiter v. Sonotone Corp., 442 U. S.  330,
339  (1979)  ("Canons of construction  ordinarily suggest  that
terms  connected  by a  disjunctive be  given separate  mean-
ings, unless the context dictates otherwise").  The language
referring  to a substantial lessening of competition  was part
of the original Clayton Act § 2, see Act of Oct. 15,  1914, ch.
322,  38 Stat. 730, and  the  same phrasing  appears  in § 7  of
that Act.  In the § 7 context, it has long  been settled that
excessive  concentration, and the oligopolistic price coordina-

