

Cite as: 506 U. S. 447 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
times difficult to distinguish robust competition from conduct
with long-term anticompetitive effects; moreover, single-firm
activity  is  unlike  concerted  activity  covered  by  § 1, which
"inherently  is fraught with anticompetitive  risk."  Copper-
weld, 467  U. S.,  at 767-769.  For  these reasons,  §2 makes
the conduct of a single firm unlawful only  when it actually
monopolizes or dangerously threatens to do so.  Id., at 767.
The concern that § 2 might be applied so as to further anti-
competitive  ends  is  plainly  not  met  by  inquiring  only
whether the defendant  has engaged  in  "unfair"  or "preda-
tory" tactics.  Such conduct  may be sufficient to prove  the
necessary  intent  to  monopolize,  which  is  something  more
than an intent to compete vigorously, but demonstrating the
dangerous  probability of monopolization  in an attempt case
also  requires  inquiry  into  the  relevant  product  and  geo-
graphic market and the defendant's economic  power in that
market.
III
We hold that petitioners may not be liable for attempted
monopolization under § 2 of the Sherman Act absent proof of
a dangerous probability that they would monopolize a partic-
ular market and specific  intent to monopolize.  In this case,
the trial instructions allowed the jury to infer specific intent
and  dangerous  probability  of  success from  the  defendants'
predatory conduct, without any proof of the relevant market
or of a realistic probability that the defendants could achieve
monopoly  power  in  that  market.  In  this  respect,  the  in-
structions misconstrued § 2,  as did the Court of Appeals  in
affirming the judgment of the District Court.  Since the af-
firmance of the § 2 judgment against petitioners rested solely
on the legally erroneous  conclusion that petitioners had at-
tempted to monopolize in violation of § 2 and since the jury's
verdict did  not  negate  the  possibility  that  the § 2  verdict
rested on the attempt to monopolize  ground alone, the judg-

NEW PAGE

SPECTRUM SPORTS, INC. v. McQUILLAN
Opinion of the Court
ment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, Sunkist Growers,
Inc. v. Winckler & Smith Citrus Products Co., 370 U. S. 19,
29-30 (1962),  and the case is remanded  for further proceed-
ings consistent with this opinion.10
So ordered.
10R espondents conceded in their brief that the case should be remanded
to the Court of Appeals if we found error in the instruction on attempt to
monopolize.  Brief for Respondents 45-46.

NEW PAGE