

416  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO, LLP
STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment
other approach  might yield  greater  competition.  We  con-
clude that respondent's complaint fails to state a claim under
the Sherman Act.5
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is re-
versed,  and  the case  is  remanded  for further  proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS,  with whom JUSTICE  SOUTER and JUS-
TICE THOMAS join, concurring in the judgment.
In complex  cases it is usually  wise to begin by deciding
whether  the plaintiff has  standing to maintain  the action.
Respondent,  the  plaintiff in  this  case, is  a  local  telephone
service customer of AT&T.  Its complaint alleges that it has
received unsatisfactory service because Verizon has engaged
in conduct that adversely affects AT&T's ability to serve its
customers, in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act.  15 U. S. C.
§ 2.  Respondent seeks from Verizon treble damages, a rem-
edy that § 4 of the Clayton Act makes available to "any per-
son who  shall be injured  in his business  or  property."  15
U. S. C. § 15.  The threshold question presented by the com-
plaint is whether, assuming the truth of its allegations,  re-
spondent is a "person" within the meaning of § 4.
Respondent  would  unquestionably  be such  a "person" if
we interpreted the text of the statute literally.  But we have
eschewed  a  literal  reading  of § 4,  particularly  in  cases  in
which there is only an indirect relationship between the de-
fendant's alleged misconduct and the plaintiff's  asserted in-
jury.  Associated Gen. Contractors of Cal., Inc. v. Carpen-
ters, 459  U. S.  519,  529-535  (1983).  In  such  cases,  "the
importance of avoiding either the risk of duplicate recoveries
5 Our disposition makes it unnecessary to consider petitioner's alterna-
tive contention that respondent lacks antitrust standing.  See Steel Co. v.
Citizens for Better Environment, 523  U. S. 83, 97, and n. 2 (1998); Na-
tional Railroad Passenger Corporation v. National Assn. of Railroad
Passengers,4 14 U. S.4 53, 456 (1974).

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment
on the one hand, or the danger of complex apportionment of
damages on the other," weighs heavily against a literal read-
ing of § 4.  Id.,  at 543-544.  Our  interpretation  of § 4 has
thus adhered  to Justice  Holmes' observation  that the "gen-
eral tendency  of the  law, in  regard to damages  at least, is
not to go beyond  the first  step."  Southern Pacific Co. v.
Darnell-TaenzerL  umber Co., 245 U. S. 531,  533 (1918).
I  would  not  go  beyond  the  first step  in  this  case.  Al-
though respondent contends  that its injuries  were, like the
plaintiff's  injuries  in  Blue Shield of Va. v. McCready, 457
U. S. 465, 479 (1982), "the very means by which...  [Verizon]
sought to achieve  its illegal  ends," it remains  the case  that
whatever  antitrust  injury  respondent  suffered  because  of
Verizon's  conduct  was  purely  derivative of the injury  that
AT&T suffered.  And for that reason, respondent's suit, un-
like McCready, runs both the risk of duplicative  recoveries
and the danger of complex apportionment of damages.  The
task of determining the monetary value of the harm caused
to respondent by AT&T's inferior service, the portion of that
harm  attributable  to  Verizon's  misconduct,  whether  all or
just some of such possible misconduct was prohibited by the
Sherman Act, and what offset, if any, should be allowed  to
make room for a recovery that would make AT&T whole, is
certain to be daunting.  AT&T, as the direct victim of Veri-
zon's alleged misconduct, is in a far better position than re-
spondent to vindicate  the public interest in enforcement  of
the antitrust laws.  Denying a remedy to AT&T's customer
is  not  likely  to  leave  a  significant  antitrust  violation  un-
detected or unremedied,  and will serve  the strong interest
"in keeping the scope of complex  antitrust trials within ju-
dicially  manageable  limits."  Associated Gen. Contractors,
459 U. S., at 543.
In  my judgment,  our  reasoning  in  Associated General
Contractors requires  us  to  reverse  the  judgment  of  the
Court of Appeals.  I would not decide  the merits of the § 2

NEW PAGE

418  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment
claim  unless  and  until  such  a claim  is  advanced  by  either
AT&T  or  a  similarly  situated  competitive  local  exchange
carrier.

