

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
SCALIA, J., dissenting
United States law).  Where applicable foreign and domestic
law provide different substantive rules of decision to govern
the parties' dispute, a conflict-of-laws  analysis is  necessary.
See  generally  R.  Weintraub,  Commentary  on  Conflict  of
Laws 2-3 (1980); Restatement (First) of Conflict of Laws § 1,
Comment c and Illustrations  (1934).
Literally  the  only  support  that  the  Court adduces  for
its  position  is  §403  of the Restatement  (Third)--or  more
precisely Comment e to that provision, which states:
"Subsection  (3) [which says that a State should defer to
another state if that State's interest is  clearly greater]
applies only when one state requires what another pro-
hibits, or where compliance with the regulations of two
states exercising jurisdiction consistently with this sec-
tion is otherwise impossible.  It does not apply where a
person  subject to regulation by two states can  comply
with the laws of both . ..  "
The  Court  has  completely  misinterpreted  this  provision.
Subsection  (3) of § 403 (requiring one State to  defer to an-
other in the limited circumstances just described) comes into
play  only  after  subsection  (1) of § 403  has  been  complied
with-i. e., after it has been determined that the exercise of
jurisdiction by both of the two States is not "unreasonable."
That  prior  question  is  answered  by  applying  the  factors
(inter alia) set forth in subsection (2) of § 403, that is, pre-
cisely the factors that I have discussed in text and that the
Court rejects.1
II The Court skips directly to subsection (3) of § 403, apparently on the
authority of Comment j to § 415 of the Restatement (Third).  See ante, at
799.  But the preceding commentary to § 415 makes clear that "[a]ny exer-
cise of [legislative] jurisdiction under this section is subject to the require-
ment of reasonableness" set forth in § 403(2).  Restatement (Third) § 415,
Comment a.  Comment j refers back to the conflict analysis set forth in
§ 403(3),  which, as noted above, comes  after the reasonableness analysis
of § 403(2).

NEW PAGE

822  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
SCALIA, J., dissenting
I would reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals on
this  issue, and  remand  to the District Court with instruc-
tions  to  dismiss  for  failure  to  state  a  claim  on  the  three
counts at issue in No. 91-1128.

NEW PAGE