

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Counsel
General  of Idaho,  and Brett T  DeLange, Deputy Attorney
General,  Jim Ryan, Attorney General  of Illinois, and Bar-
bara Preiner,S olicitor General, Thomas J. Miller, Attorney
General of Iowa, and Elizabeth M. Osenbaugh, Solicitor Gen-
eral, CarlaJ  Stovall, Attorney General of Kansas, and John
W. Campbell, Deputy Attorney  General, J  Joseph Curran,
Jr., Attorney General of Maryland, and Ellen S. Cooper, As-
sistant Attorney General, Frank J Kelley, Attorney General
of Michigan,  and Fredrick H. Hoffecker, Hubert H. Hum-
phrey III, Attorney General of Minnesota, Mike Moore, At-
torney General  of Mississippi, and James F. Steel, Deputy
Attorney General, Joseph P. Mazurek, Attorney General  of
Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa, Attorney General  of Ne-
vada, Steven M. Houran, Acting Attorney General  of New
Hampshire, and Walter L. Maroney, Senior Assistant Attor-
ney General, Peter Verniero, Attorney General of New Jer-
sey, and Laurel A. Price, Deputy Attorney  General,  Tom
Udall, Attorney  General  of  New  Mexico,  and  Susan  G.
White, Assistant Attorney General, Michael F. Easley, At-
torney General of North Carolina, and K. D. Sturgis, Assist-
ant Attorney  General,  Heidi Heitkamp, Attorney  General
of North Dakota, and Laurie J Loveland, Solicitor General,
D. Michael Fisher, Attorney General  of Pennsylvania, and
James A. Donahue III, Acting Chief Deputy Attorney Gen-
eral,  Jeffrey B. Pine, Attorney  General  of Rhode  Island,
Mark Barnett, Attorney  General  of  South  Dakota, 'John
Knox Walkup, Attorney General  of Tennessee,  Michael E.
Moore, Solicitor General, and Dennis Garvey, Interim Dep-
uty Attorney General,  Dan Morales, Attorney  General  of
Texas,  Jorge Vega, First  Assistant Attorney  General,  and
Laquita A. Hamilton, Deputy Attorney General,  James S.
Gilmore III, Attorney  General  of  Virginia,  and  Frank
Seales, Jr., Senior Assistant Attorney General,  Christine 0.
Gregoire, Attorney General of Washington, and Jon P. Fer-
guson, Darrell V  McGraw, Jr., Attorney  General of West
Virginia, James E. Doyle, Attorney  General  of Wisconsin,

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
and  Kevin J  O'Connor, Assistant  Attorney  General,  and
William U. Hill, Attorney General of Wyoming.*
JUSTICE  O'CONNOR delivered the opinion of the Court.
Under ยง 1 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, as amended,
15 U. S. C. ยง 1, "[e]very contract, combination...,  or conspir-
acy, in restraint of trade" is illegal.  In Albrecht v. Herald
Co., 390 U. S. 145 (1968),  this Court held that vertical maxi-
mum price fixing is a per se  violation  of that statute.  In
this case, we are asked to reconsider that decision  in light
of subsequent  decisions  of this  Court.  We  conclude  that
Albrecht should be overruled.
I
Respondents, Barkat U. Khan and his corporation, entered
into  an  agreement  with petitioner,  State  Oil  Company, to
lease and operate a gas station and convenience store owned
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the American
Automobile Manufacturers Association et al. by Stephen M. Shapiro,R  oy
T Englert, Jr., Donald M. Falk, Phillip D. Brady, and Charles H. Lock-
wood II; for the American Petroleum Institute by Edwin M. Zimmerman,
Robert A  Long, Jr., G. William Frick, Harry M. Ng, and Douglas W.
Morris;f or the Business Roundtable by Thomas B. Leary and Robert C.
Weinbaum; and for the Newspaper Association of America et al. by Wil-
liam T Lifland, PatriciaF  arren,D  avid S. J  Brown, Rene P. Milam,
Peter C. Gould, Andrew Merdek, William T Garcia, CristinaL . Mendoza,
and George Freeman.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Association of the Bar of the
City of New York by Richard M. Steuer; for the Coalition for Fair Con-
sumer Pricing by Steven B. Feirman,B  arry M. Heller, H. Bret Lowell,
Philip F. Zeidman, and Stanley J  Adelman; for the Minnesota Service
Station and Convenience Store Association et al. by Gary E. Persiana nd
Paul E. Slater; for the National Association of ManufactureM by Mark
L. Davidson, Jan S. Amundson, and Quentin Riegel; for the National
Automobile  Dealers Association by Paul R. Norman; for the National
Beer Wholesalers Association, Inc., by Ernest Gellhorn, Donald I. Baker,
and W. Todd Miller; and for the Service Station Dealers of America by
Peter H. Gunst.

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
by  State  Oil.  The  agreement  provided  that  respondents
would obtain the station's gasoline supply from State Oil at
a price equal to a suggested retail price set by State Oil, less
a margin  of 3.25  cents per gallon. - -Under the agreement,
respondents could charge any amount for gasoline sold to the
station's customers, but if the price charged was higher than
State Oil's  suggested retail price, the excess  was to be re-
bated to State Oil.  Respondents  could sell gasoline for less
than State Oils suggested retail price, but any such decrease
would reduce their 3.25 cents-per-gallon  margin.
About a year after respondents began  operating the gas
station, they fell behind in lease payments.  State Oil then
gave notice of its intent to terminate the agreement and com-
menced  a state court proceeding  to evict respondents.  At
State Oil's request, the state court appointed a receiver  to
operate the gas station.  The receiver  operated the station
for  several  months without being  subject  to the price  re-
straints in respondents' agreement with State Oil.  Accord-
ing to respondents,  the receiver  obtained  an overall profit
margin in excess  of 3.25 cents  per gallon by lowering  the
price of regular-grade gasoline and raising the price of pre-
mium grades.
Respondents  sued State Oil in the United States District
Court for the Northern  District of Illinois, alleging in part
that State Oil had engaged in price fixing in violation of ยง 1
of the Sherman Act by preventing respondents from raising
or lowering retail gas prices.  According  to the complaint,
but for the agreement with State Oil, respondents could have
charged different prices based on the grades  of gasoline, in
the  same  way  that  the  receiver  had,  thereby  achieving
increased  sales and  profits.  State  Oil responded  that  the
agreement did not actually prevent respondents from setting
gasoline prices, and that, in substance, respondents did not
allege a violation of antitrust laws by their claim that State
Oil's suggested retail price was not optimal.

