

510  MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN. v. GARVEY
Per Curiain
Id., at 37 (quoting Steelworkers v. American Mfg. Co., 363
U. S. 564, 568 (1960)).  When the judiciary does so, "it usurps
a function which..,  is entrusted to the arbitration tribunal."
Id., at 569; see also Enterprise Wheel & Car Corp., supra, at
599 ("It is the  arbitrator's construction  [of the agreement]
which was bargained for...").  Consistent with this limited
role, we said in Misco that "[e]ven in the very rare instances
when an arbitrator's procedural aberrations rise to the level
of affirmative misconduct, as a rule the court must not fore-
close further proceedings by settling the merits according to
its own judgment of the appropriate result."  484 U. S.,  at
40-41, n.  10.  That step, we explained,  "would improperly
substitute a judicial  determination  for the  arbitrator's  de-
cision  that the parties  bargained for"  in their agreement.
Ibid.  Instead, the court should "simply vacate the award,
thus  leaving  open  the  possibility  of  further  proceedings
if they are permitted under the terms of the agreement."
Ibid.
To be sure, the Court of Appeals here recited these princi-
ples, but its application  of them is nothing short of baffling.
The substance of the court's discussion reveals that it over-
turned the arbitrator's decision because it disagreed with the
arbitrator's factual findings, particularly those with respect
to credibility.  The Court of Appeals, it appears, would have
credited  Smith's  1996 letter, and found the arbitrator's re-
fusal to do  so at worst "irrational"  and  at best "bizarre."
Garvey I, 203 F. 3d, at 590-591.  But even "serious error"
on the arbitrator's part does not justify overturning his deci-
sion, where, as here, he is construing a contract  and acting
within the scope of his authority.  Misco, supra, at 38.
In Garvey II,  the court clarified that Garvey I  both re-
jected the arbitrator's findings  and went further, resolving
the merits of the parties' dispute based on the court's assess-
ment of the record before the arbitrator.  For that reason,
the court found further arbitration proceedings  inappropri-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 532 U. S. 504 (2001)
Per Curiam
ate.  But again, established law ordinarily precludes a court
from resolving the merits of the parties' dispute on the basis
of its own factual determinations, no matter how erroneous
the arbitrator's decision.  Misco, supra, at 40, n. 10; see also
American Mfg. Co., supra, at 568.  Even when the arbitra-
tor's award may properly be vacated, the appropriate  rem-
edy is to remand the case for further arbitration proceedings.
Misco, supra, at 40, n.  10.  The dissent  suggests that the
remedy  described  in Misco is limited to  cases  where  the
arbitrator's errors are procedural.  Post, at 512 (opinion of
STEVENS,  J.).  Misco did involve procedural issues, but our
discussion  regarding  the  appropriate  remedy  was  not  so
limited.  If a remand is appropriate even when the arbitra-
tor's award has been set aside for "procedural aberrations"
that constitute "affirmative misconduct," it follows that a re-
mand ordinarily will be appropriate when the arbitrator sim-
ply made factual findings that the reviewing court perceives
as "irrational."  The Court of Appeals usurped the arbitra-
tor's role by resolving the dispute and barring further pro-
ceedings, a result at odds with this governing law.2
For the foregoing reasons, the Court of Appeals  erred in
reversing the order of the District Court denying the motion
to vacate the arbitrator's award, and it erred further in di-
recting that judgment  be entered  in Garvey's  favor.  The
petition for a writ of certiorari is granted, the judgment of
21n any event, no serious error on the arbitrator's part is apparent in
this case.  The fact that an earlier panel of arbitrators rejected the own-
ers' testimony as a whole does not compel the conclusion that the panel
found Smith's specific statements with respect to Garvey to be false.  The
arbitrator's  explanation for his decision indicates that he simply found
Smith an unreliable witness and that, in the absence of corroborating evi-
dence, he could only conclude that Garvey failed to show that the Padres
had offered to extend his contract.  The arbitrator's analysis may have
been unpersuasive to the Court of Appeals, but his decision hardly quali-
fies as serious error, let alone irrational or inexplicable error.  And, as we
have said, any such error would not justify the actions taken by the court.

NEW PAGE

512  MAJOR  LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN. v. GARVEY
STEVENS, J., dissenting
the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded
for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE GINSBURG,  concurring in part and concurring in
the judgment.
I agree with the Court that in Garvey v. Roberts, 203 F. 3d
580 (CA9 2000), the Ninth Circuit should not have disturbed
the arbitrator's  award.  Correction of that error  sets this
case straight.  I see no need to say more.
JUSTICE STEVENS,  dissenting.
It is well settled that an  arbitrator "does  not sit to dis-
pense his own brand of industrial justice."  Steelworkers v.
Enterprise Wheel & Car Corp., 363  U. S. 593,  597  (1960).
We have  also said fairly definitively, albeit in dicta, that a
court should remedy an arbitrator's "procedural aberrations"
by vacating the award and remanding for further proceed-
ings.  Paperworkersv . Misco, Inc., 484 U. S. 29, 40-41, n. 10
(1987).  Our cases, however, do not provide significant guid-
ance  as to what standards a federal court should use in as-
sessing whether an arbitrator's behavior is so untethered to
either the agreement  of the parties or the factual record so
as to  constitute an attempt to "dispense  his own brand of
industrial justice."  Nor, more importantly, do they tell us
how, having  made  such  a finding, courts  should deal  with
"the  extraordinary  circumstance  in which  the  arbitrator's
own rulings make clear that, more than being simply errone-
ous, his finding is completely inexplicable and borders on the
irrational."  Garvey v. Roberts, 203  F. 3d  580,  590  (CA9
2000) (case below).  Because our case law is not sufficiently
clear  to  allow  me  to  conclude  that  the  case  below  was
wrongly decided-let alone to conclude that the decision was
so wrong as to require the extraordinary remedy of a sum-

