

Cite as: 518 U. S. 231 (1996)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
The  Court nevertheless  contends  that the "rationale" of
our prior  cases  supports  its approach.  Ante,  at 243.  As
support for that contention,  it relies heavily on  the views
espoused in Justice Goldberg's separate opinion in Meat Cut-
ters v. Jewel Tea Co., 381  U. S. 676  (1965).  At five critical
junctures in its opinion, see ante, at 236, 237-238, 242, 247-
248, the Court invokes that separate concurrence  to explain
why, for purposes of applying the nonstatutory labor exemp-
tion, labor law policy admits of no distinction between collec-
tive employer action taken in response to labor demands and
collective employer action of the kind we consider here.
It should be remembered  that Jewel Tea concerned  only
the question whether an agreement between employers and
a union may be exempt, and that even then the Court did not
accept the broad antitrust exemption that Justice  Goldberg
advocated.  Instead, Justice White, the ailthor of Penning-
ton, writing for Chief Justice Warren  and Justice  Brennan,
explained that even in disputes over the lawfulness of agree-
ments about terms that are subject to mandatory bargaining,
courts  must  examine  the bargaining  process  to  determine
whether  antitrust scrutiny  should  obtain.  Jewel Tea, 381
U. S., at 688-697.  "The crucial determinant is not the form
of the  agreement-e. g.,  prices  or  wages-but  its relative
impact on  the product  market  and the interests of union
members."  Id., at 690, n. 5  (emphasis added).  Moreover,
the  three  dissenters,  Justices  Douglas,  Clark,  and  Black,
concluded that the union was entitled to no immunity at all.
Id., at 735-738.
It should also be remembered that Justice Goldberg used
his separate opinion in Jewel Tea to explain his reasons for
dissenting from the Court's opinion in Pennington.  He ex-
plained that the Court's approach in Pennington was unjus-
tifiable precisely because  it permitted "antitrust courts" to
reexamine  the bargaining  process.  The  Court fails to ex-
plain its apparent  substitution in this case of Justice  Gold-

NEW PAGE

BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
berg's  understanding  of the  exemption,  an  understanding
previously endorsed by only two other Justices, for the one
adopted by the Court in Pennington.
The Court's silence is all the more remarkable  in light of
the patent factual  distinctions  between Jewel Tea and  the
present  case.  It is not  at all  clear  that Justice  Goldberg
himself understood his expansive  rationale to require appli-
cation of the exemption in circumstances such as those before
us here.  Indeed, the main theme of his opinion was that the
antitrust laws  should not be used to circumscribe bargain-
ing over union demands.  Jewel Tea, 381  U. S.,  at 723-725.
Moreover, Justice Goldberg proved himself to be a most un-
reliable  advocate for the sweeping position  that the Court
attributes to him.
Not long after leaving the Court, Justice Goldberg served
as  counsel  for  Curt  Flood,  a  professional  baseball  player
who contended  that major  league baseball's  reserve  clause
violated the antitrust laws.  Flood v. Kuhn, 407  U. S.  258
(1972).  Although  the  Flood  case  primarily  concerned
whether professional baseball should be exempt from anti-
trust law  altogether, see  Federal Baseball Club of Balti-
more, Inc. v.  National League  of Professional Baseball
Clubs, 259  U. S. 200 (1922);  Toolson v. New  York  Yankees,
Inc., 346 U. S. 356  (1953),  the labor law  dimensions  of the
case did not go unnoticed.
The article that first advanced the expansive view of the
nonstatutory labor exemption that the Court appears now to
endorse was written shortly after this Court granted certio-
rari in Flood, see Jacobs & Winter, Antitrust Principles and
Collective Bargaining by Athletes: Of Superstars in Peonage,
81 Yale L. J. 1 (1971),  and the parties to the case addressed
the very questions now before us.  Aware of both this com-
mentary, and, of course, his own prior opinion in Jewel Tea,
Justice  Goldberg  explained  in his brief to this  Court why
baseball's reserve  clause should not be protected from anti-
trust review by the nonstatutory labor exemption.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 518 U. S. 231 (1996)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
"This Court has held that even a labor organization, the
principal intended beneficiary of the so-called labor ex-
emption, may not escape antitrust liability when it acts,
not unilaterally and in the sole interest of its own mem-
bers, but in concert with employers 'to  prescribe labor
standards outside the bargaining unit[.]'  And this is so
even when the issue is so central to bargaining as wages.
Mine Workers v. Pennington, 381 U. S. at 668.  Com-
pare Meat Cutters v. Jewel Tea Co., 381 U. S. 676 (1965).
See  Ramsey  v.  Mine  Workers,  401  U.S.  302,  307
(1971)....
"The separate opinion on which respondents focus did
express the view that 'collective bargaining activity on
mandatory  subjects of bargaining'  is exempt from anti-
trust regulation, without regard to whether the union
conduct involved is 'unilateral.'  Meat Cutters v. Jewel
Tea Co., 381 U. S. at 732 (concurring opinion).  But the
author  of that opinion  agreed  with the  majority  that
agreements  between  unions  and  nonlabor  groups  on
hard-core restraints like 'price-fixing and market alloca-
tion' were not exempt.  381 U. S. at 733.  And there is
no support in any of the opinions filed in Meat Cutters
for Baseball's essential, if tacit, contention that unilat-
eral,  hard-core  anticompetitive  activity  by  employers
acting  alone-the  present  case-is  somehow  exempt
from antitrust regulation."  Reply Brief for Petitioner
in Flood v. Kuhn, 0. T. 1971, No. 71-32, pp. 13-14.
Moreover, Justice  Goldberg explained  that the extension
of antitrust immunity to unilateral, anticompetitive employer
action would be particularly inappropriate because baseball's
reserve clause predated collective bargaining.
"This  case  is  in fact  much  clearer  than  Pennington,
Meat Cutters, or Ramsey, for petitioner does not chal-
lenge  the  fruits  of collective  bargaining  activity.  He
seeks relief from a scheme-the reserve system-which

