

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
Communications  Commission  as Amici  Curiae Supporting
Neither Party in  No. 02-7057,  Covad Communications Co.
v. Bell Atlantic Corp. (CADC), p. 8.
But just  as  the  1996  Act  preserves  claims  that  satisfy
existing antitrust standards, it  does  not create new claims
that go beyond existing  antitrust standards;  that would be
equally inconsistent  with  the saving  clause's  mandate  that
nothing in the Act "modify, impair, or supersede the applica-
bility" of the antitrust laws.  We turn, then, to whether the
activity of which respondent complains violates pre-existing
antitrust standards.
I'
The complaint alleges that Verizon denied interconnection
services  to rivals in order to limit entry.  If that allegation
states  an antitrust claim  at all, it does  so under § 2  of the
Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 2, which declares that a firm shall
not "monopolize"  or "attempt to monopolize."  Ibid.  It is
settled law that this offense requires, in addition to the pos-
session of monopoly power in the relevant market, "the will-
ful acquisition or maintenance of that power as distinguished
from growth or development  as a consequence  of a superior
product,  business  acumen,  or  historic  accident."  United
States v. Grinnell Corp., 384 U. S. 563, 570-571 (1966).  The
mere  possession  of monopoly  power,  and  the  concomitant
charging of monopoly prices, is not only not unlawful; it is an
important element of the free-market system.  The opportu-
nity to charge monopoly prices-at least for a short period-
is what  attracts "business  acumen"  in the first place; it in-
duces  risk  taking that  produces  innovation  and  economic
growth.  To safeguard the incentive to innovate, the posses-
sion of monopoly  power  will not be  found  unlawful unless
it is accompanied  by an element of anticompetitive  conduct.
Firms may acquire monopoly power by establishing an in-
frastructure that renders them uniquely suited to serve their
customers.  Compelling  such  firms  to  share  the  source  of
their advantage is in some tension with the underlying pur-

NEW PAGE

408  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW  OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
Opinion of the Court
pose of antitrust law, since it may lessen the incentive for the
monopolist, the rival, or both to invest in those economically
beneficial  facilities.  Enforced  sharing  also  requires  anti-
trust courts to act as central planners, identifying the proper
price, quantity, and other terms of dealing-a role for which
they  are  ill  suited.  Moreover,  compelling  negotiation  be-
tween competitors  may facilitate  the  supreme  evil of anti-
trust: collusion.  Thus, as a general matter, the Sherman Act
"does not restrict the long recognized  right of [a]  trader or
manufacturer engaged in an entirely private business, freely
to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties with
whom  he  will  deal."  United States v. Colgate & Co., 250
U. S. 300, 307 (1919).
However,  "[t]he  high  value  that we  have  placed  on  the
right to refuse to deal with other firms does not mean that
the right is unqualified."  Aspen Skiing Co. v. Aspen High-
lands Skiing Corp., 472 U. S. 585, 601 (1985).  Under certain
circumstances, a refusal to cooperate with rivals can consti-
tute anticompetitive conduct and violate § 2.  We have been
very cautious in recognizing such exceptions, because of the
uncertain virtue of forced sharing and the difficulty of identi-
fying  and  remedying  anticompetitive  conduct  by  a  single
firm.  The question before  us today is whether the allega-
tions of respondent's complaint fit within existing exceptions
or provide a basis, under traditional antitrust principles, for
recognizing a new one.
The leading case for § 2 liability based on refusal to cooper-
ate with a rival, and the case upon which respondent under-
standably places  greatest reliance,  is Aspen Skiing, supra.
The Aspen ski area consisted of four mountain areas.  The
defendant, who owned three of those areas, and the plaintiff,
who owned the fourth, had cooperated for years in the issu-
ance of a joint, multiple-day, all-area  ski ticket.  After  re-
peatedly demanding  an increased share of the proceeds, the
defendant canceled the joint ticket.  The plaintiff, concerned
that skiers  would bypass  its mountain  without  some joint

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
offering, tried a variety of increasingly desperate  measures
to re-create  the joint ticket, even  to the point  of in  effect
offering  to buy the defendant's  tickets at retail price.  Id.,
at 593-594.  The defendant  refused  even  that.  We upheld
a jury verdict for the plaintiff, reasoning that "[the jury may
well  have  concluded  that  [the  defendant]  elected  to forgo
these  short-run  benefits  because  it was  more interested  in
reducing competition  ...  over the long run by harming its
smaller competitor."  Id., at 608.
Aspen Skiing is at or near the outer boundary of § 2 liabil-
ity.  The Court there found significance  in  the defendant's
decision to cease participation in a cooperative venture.  See
id., at 608, 610-611.  The unilateral termination  of a volun-
tary  (and thus presumably profitable) course  of  dealing
suggested  a  willingness  to  forsake  short-term  profits  to
achieve  an  anticompetitive  end.  Ibid.  Similarly, the  de-
fendant's unwillingness to renew the ticket even if compen-
sated at retail price revealed  a  distinctly  anticompetitive
bent.
The refusal to deal alleged in the present case does not fit
within  the  limited  exception  recognized  in  Aspen  Skiing.
The  complaint does  not allege that Verizon  voluntarily  en-
gaged  in a course of dealing with its rivals, or would ever
have done so absent statutory compulsion.  Here, therefore,
the defendant's  prior conduct  sheds no  light upon the mo-
tivation  of  its  refusal  to  deal-upon  whether  its  regula-
tory lapses were  prompted  not by competitive zeal  but by
anticompetitive  malice.  The contrast between  the cases  is
heightened by the difference in pricing behavior.  In Aspen
Skiing, the defendant turned down a proposal  to sell at its
own retail price, suggesting a calculation that its future mo-
nopoly retail price would be higher.  Verizon's reluctance to
interconnect at the cost-based rate of compensation available
under §251(c)(3) tells us nothing about dreams of monopoly.
The  specific nature of what the  1996  Act compels  makes
this case different from Aspen Skiing in a more fundamental

