OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Syllabus
BROWN  ET  AL.  V. PRO  FOOTBALL,  INC., DBA
WASHINGTON  REDSKINS,  ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
No. 95-388.  Argued March 27, 1996-Decided June 20, 1996
After their collective-bargaining agreement expired, the National Football
League (NFL), a group of football clubs, and the NFL Players Associa-
tion, a labor union, began to negotiate a new contract.  The NFL pre-
sented a plan that would permit each club to establish a "developmental
squad" of substitute  players, each of whom would  be paid the same
$1,000  weekly  salary.  The union disagreed, insisting that individual
squad members should be free to negotiate their own salaries.  When
negotiations reached an impasse, the NFL unilaterally implemented the
plan.  A number of squad players brought this antitrust suit, claiming
that the employers' agreement to pay them $1,000 per week restrained
trade in  violation of the Sherman Act.  The District  Court entered
judgment for the players on a jury treble-damages award, but the Court
of Appeals reversed, holding that the owners were immune from anti-
trust liability under the federal labor laws.
Held  Federal labor laws shield from antitrust attack an agreement among
several employers bargaining together to implement after impasse the
terms of their last best good-faith wage offer.  Pp. 235-250.
(a) This Court has previously found in the labor laws  an implicit,
"nonstatutory" antitrust exemption that applies where needed to make
the collective-bargaining process work.  See, e. g., Connell Constr. Co.
v. Plumbers,4 21 U. S. 616, 622.  The practice here at issue-the postim-
passe imposition of a proposed employment term concerning a manda-
tory subject of bargaining-is unobjectionable as a matter of labor law
and policy, and, indeed, plays a significant role in the multiemployer
collective-bargaining process that itself comprises an important part of
the Nation's industrial relations system.  Subjecting it to antitrust law
would  threaten  to  introduce  instability  and  uncertainty  into  the
collective-bargaining process, for antitrust often forbids or discourages
the kinds of joint discussions and behavior that collective bargaining
invites or requires.  Moreover, if antitrust courts tried to evaluate par-
ticular kinds of employer understandings, there would be created a web
of detailed rules spun by many different nonexpert antitrust judges and
juries, not a set of labor rules enforced by a single expert body, the

NEW PAGE

BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
Syllabus
National Labor Relations Board, to which the labor laws give primary
responsibility  for  policing  collective  bargaining.  Thus,  the  implicit
exemption applies in this case.  Pp. 235-242.
(b) Petitioners'  claim  that  the  exemption  applies  only  to  labor-
management  agreements is  rejected, since  it is based on inapposite
authority, and an exemption limited by petitioners' labor-management-
consent principle could not work.  Pp. 243-244.
(c) Also rejected is the Government's  argument that the exemption
should terminate at the point of impasse.  Its rationale, that employers
are thereafter free as a matter of labor law to negotiate individual ar-
rangements on an interim basis with the union, is not completely accu-
rate.  More importantly, the simple "impasse" line would not solve the
basic problem that labor law permits employers, after impasse, to en-
gage in considerable joint behavior, while uniform employer conduct-
at  least when  accompanied  by  discussion-invites  antitrust  attack.
Pp. 244-247.
(d) Petitioners' alternative rule, which would exempt from antitrust's
reach postimpasse agreements about bargaining "tactics," but not those
about substantive "terms," is unsatisfactory because it would require
antitrust courts, insulated from the bargaining process, to delve into the
amorphous subject of employers' subjective motives in order to deter-
mine whether the exemption applied.  Pp. 247-248.
(e) Petitioners'  arguments relating to general  "backdrop"  statutes
and  the  "special"  nature  of professional  sports  are  also  rejected.
Pp. 248-250.
(f) The antitrust exemption applies to the employer conduct at issue
here,  which  took  place  during  and  immediately  after  a  collective-
bargaining negotiation; grew out of, and was a directly related to, the
lawful operation of the bargaining process; involved a matter that the
parties were required to negotiate collectively; and concerned only the
parties to the collective-bargaining relationship.  The Court's holding is
not intended to insulate from antitrust review every joint imposition of
terms by employers, for an employer agreement could be sufficiently
distant in time and in circumstances from the bargaining process that a
rule permitting antitrust intervention would not significantly interfere
with that process.  The, Court need not decide in this ease whether, or
where, to draw the line, particularly since it does not have the detailed
views of the Board on the matter.  P. 250.
50 F. 3d 1041, affirmed.
BREYER, J.,  delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J.,  and O'CoNNoR,  ScALIA,  KENNEDY, SOUTER,  THOMAS,  and GINS-
BURG, JJ., joined.  STEvENS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 252.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 518 U. S. 231 (1996)
Opinion of the Court
Kenneth W.S tarr argued the cause for petitioners.  With
him on the briefs were Paul T Cappuccio, Steven G. Brad-
bury, Joseph A. Yablonski, and Daniel B. Edelman.
Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued the cause  for
the United States  et al. as amicus curiae urging reversal.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Days, Assist-
ant Attorney General Bingaman, Deputy Assistant Attor-
ney General Klein, Paul R. Q. Wolfson, Robert J. Nicholson,
Robert J Wiggers, and David C. Shonka.
Gregg H. Levy  argued the cause for respondents.  With
him on the brief were Herbert Dym, Sonya D. Winner, and
Robert A. Long, Jr.*
JUSTICE BREYER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question in this case arises at the intersection  of the
Nation's labor and antitrust laws.  A group of professional
*Briefs  of amici curiae urging reversal  were filed' for the National
Hockey League Players Association et al. by Simon P. Gourdine, Lau-
rence Gold, Virginia A.  Seitz, James W. Quinn, and Jeffrey L. Kessler;
and for the Screen Actors Guild, Inc., et al. by David Alter.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were ified for the Alliance of
Motion Picture and Television Producers by Richard M. Cooper; for the
American Trucking Associations by Mark I. Levy and Daniel R. Barney;
for the Associated General  Contractors of America,  Inc., by .Charles E.
Murphy, John G. Roberts, Jr., and Michael E. Kennedy; for the Bitumi-
nous Coal Operators' Association, Inc., by Charles P O'Connor,P  eterB  us-
cemi, and Stanley F. Lechner; for the Carriers Container Council, Inc.,
et al. by C. PeterL ambos, Robert J Attaway, Donato Caruso,a nd Robert
S. Zuckerman; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States et al.
by Zachary D. Fasman,N  eal D.M ollen, Jenny C. Wu, Stephen A Bokar,
Robin S. Conrad, Jan S. Amundson, and Quentin Riegel; for the League
of Voluntary Hospitals and Homes of New York et al. by Howard L. Ganz
and Steven C. Krane; for the National Basketball Association by Jeffrey
A Michkin and Richard W. Buchanan; for the National Electrical Con-
tractors  Association,  Inc., by Gary L. Lieber; for the National Hockey
League by Frank Rothman; for the National Railway Labor Conference
by Richard T Conway, Ralph J Moore, Jr., David P.L ee, and Joanna
Moorhead; and for the Office of the Commissioner  of Baseball et al. by
Randy L. Levine and Thomas J Ostertag.

