

220  AMERICAN TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL  OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
ing.  Although  respondent continued to resell SDN, it was
ultimately unable to meet its usage commitment for the first
period in which it was applicable.  In September  1992, re-
spondent notified petitioner that it was terminating its SDN
service effective September 30, 1992, with 18 months remain-
ing on its contract.
Meanwhile,  on  November  27,  1991,  respondent had filed
suit against petitioner in the United  States District  Court
for the District of Oregon.  The complaint contained a vari-
ety of claims, none of which arose under the Communications
Act, and ultimately  two state-law  claims went  to trial:  (1)
breach of contract (including breach of an implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing); and (2) tortious interference
with contractual relations  (viz., respondents  contracts with
its customers).  Respondent's state-law claims rested on the
allegation that its contracts with petitioner were not limited
by petitioner's  tariff but also included certain understand-
ings respondent's president derived from reading petitioner's
brochures  and talking with its representatives.  According
to  respondent,  petitioner  promised  various  service,  provi-
sioning, and billing options in addition to those set forth in
the tariff.  Respondent also claimed that petitioner violated
its state-law implied duty of good faith and fair dealing by
taking actions that undermined the purpose  of the contract
for  respondent,  which  was  to  purchase  SDN  services  for
resale at a profit.  The tortious-interference  claim was de-
rivative  of the contract  claim.  Respondent  asserted that,
because respondent promised certain benefits of SDN to its
customers, and because petitioner provided competing serv-
ices, any intentional violation of petitioner's contractual du-
ties constituted tortious-interference with respondent's rela-
tionship with its customers.  Respondent also asserted that,
since petitioner's conduct was willful, consequential damages
were available under the terms of the tariff.  Petitioner fied
a counterclaim to recover $200,000 in unpaid tariffed charges

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
from April to October 1990, and  to obtain  the termination
charges that respondent did not pay in 1992.
Throughout the proceedings  in District Court, petitioner
argued that respondent's state-law contract  and tort claims
were pre-empted by the filed-tariff requirements  of ยง 203 of
the Act.  The Magistrate Judge rejected this argument and
instructed the jury to consider not only the written subscrip-
tion agreements, but also any statements made or documents
furnished before the parties signed the agreements "'if you
find that the parties intended that those statements or writ-
ten materials  form  part of their agreements."'  Brief for
Petitioner  18.  The  Magistrate  Judge  also  instructed  the
jury that it could  not find  for respondent  on  its contract
claims unless it found that petitioner engaged in willful mis-
conduct.  He  declined to instruct on punitive  damages  for
the tortious-interference claim.  The jury found for respond-
ent  on  its  state-law  claims,  rejected  petitioner's  counter-
claim,  and  awarded  respondent  $13  million  in lost profits.
The Magistrate Judge reduced the judgment to $1.154  mil-
lion, which represented. the lost profits  respondent claimed
during the period before it canceled SDN on September 30,
1992; he found that there was no competent evidence for lost
profits after that date.  The Court of Appeals, over a dissent
by Judge Brunetti, affirmed the judgment but reversed the
Magistrate Judge's  failure to instruct on punitive  damages
and  remanded  for a trial on  that aspect  of the  case.  108
F. 3d 981 (CA9 1997).  We granted certiorari to determine
whether the federal filed-rate requirements of ยง 203 pre-empt
respondent's claims.  522 U. S. 1024 (1997).
II
Section 203(a) of the Communications  Act requires every
common carrier to file with the FCC "schedules," i. e., tariffs,
"showing all charges" and "showing the classifications, prac-
tices,  and regulations  affecting  such  charges."  47  U. S. C.
ยง 203(a).  Section 203(c) makes it unlawful for  a carrier  to

NEW PAGE

222  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE,  INC.
Opinion of the Court
"extend to  any  person any  privileges  or  facilities  in such
communication, or employ or enforce any classifications, reg-
ulations, or practices affecting such charges, except as speci-
fied in such schedule."  These provisions are modeled after
similar provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act (ICA) and
share its goal of preventing unreasonable and discriminatory
charges.  MCI  Telecommunications  Corp.  v.  American
Telephone & Telegraph Co.,  512  U. S. 218,  229-230  (1994).
Accordingly, the century-old "filed rate doctrine" associated
with the ICA tariff provisions applies to the Communications
Act as well.  See id., at 229-231; Arkansas Louisiana Gas
Co. v. Hall, 453 U. S. 571, 577 (1981);  cf. United States Nay.
Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co., 284 U. S. 474, 481 (1932).  In Louis-
ville & Nashville R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94, 97 (1915),
we described  the basic  contours  of the filed  rate doctrine
under the ICA:
"Under the Interstate Commerce Act, the rate of the
carrier  duly filed is the only lawful charge.  Deviation
from  it is  not permitted upon  any pretext.  Shippers
and travelers are charged with notice of it, and they as
well as the carrier must abide by it, unless it is found
by the Commission to be unreasonable.  Ignorance  or
misquotation  of rates  is  not  an  excuse  for  paying or
charging either less or more than the rate filed.  This
rule  is  undeniably  strict  and  it  obviously  may  work
hardship  in  some  cases,  but  it  embodies  the  policy
which has been adopted by Congress in the regulation
of  interstate  commerce  in  order  to  prevent  unjust
discrimination."
Thus, even if a carrier intentionally misrepresents  its rate
and a customer relies  on the misrepresentation,  the carrier
cannot be held to the promised rate if it conflicts with the
published tariff.  Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Carl, 227
U. S. 639, 653 (1913).

