

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S. 191
173  Opinion of  the Court.
of securities might, under other circumstances, violate § 10
of the Clayton Act, Congress, by § 5 (11)  of the Interstate
Commerce  Act,  has  authorized  the  Commission  to  ap-
prove it  if it finds that so doing is in the public interest.
And Congress has expressly said that, upon such approval,
the carrier  shall  be relieved  "from  the  operation  of  the
anti-trust laws  ....  . A contrary  view would, in effect,
permit the Commission to authorize only those stock pur-
chases which would not, in the absence of § 5 (11),  offend
the antitrust laws.  "As has been said, this would render
meaningless  the exemption  relieving  the participants  in
a  properly  approved  [acquisition]  of  the  requirements
of  those  laws  . . . ."  McLean Trucking Co. v.  United
States, supra, at 86.
Here,  the  Commission  fully  considered  the  contracts
under which the Pennsylvania proposes to.acquire a 50%
interest in the Western stock and all other factors bearing
on that matter and, after doing so, approved them.  That
action  by the  Commission  did  not exceed  the statutory
limits within which  Congress has confined its discretion.
Minneapolis  contends  that  § 5 (11)  operates  only  in
futuro  and  confers  "no  authority  to  purge  the  taint of
a transaction  illegal  at the  time it  was  brought  to  the
Commission."  Whether there is merit in that contention,
as a  legal  abstraction,  we need not decide,  for here  the
existing  contractual  arrangements  through  Which  Penn-
sylvania  asks  authority to  acquire  50%  of  the Western
stock look entirely to the future.  Neither  the stock sale
and purchase contract betweeb the trustees and the Santa
Fe nor the one  between  the Santa Fe and the Pennsyl-
support of its enactment, suggests strongly that the words "dealings in
securities"  were  intended  to  cover  only  a  carrier's  dealings  with
related persons  in  its own  securities.  See H. R. Rep. No. 627,  63d
Cong., 2d Sess.,  p. 3;  S. Rep. No. 698, 63d Cong.,  2d Sess., pp. 47-
48;  S. Doc.  No.  585, 63d Cong.,  2d Sess.,  pp. 8-9;  51  Cong.  Rec.
15943.
525554 0-60-18

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of the Court.  361 U. S.
vania Company is a consummated  transaction,  but each
is  expressly  subject  to,  and, will  become  effective  only
upon, approval by the Commission.  Apart from criminal
prosecutions,  with  which  we  are  not  here concerned,  it
seems plain that approval of an acquisition  by the Com-
mission  operates under  § 5 (11),  as that section says, to
relieve  the acquiring  carrier  "from  the operation  of the
antitrust  laws  .... 
Appellants next contend that the Commission violated
§ 8 (b)  of the Administrative Procedure Act.by failing to
make  findings which,  they think, were compelled by the
evidence.
There  can  be no doubt that  the Administrative  Pro-
cedure Act applies to proceedings before the Commission,
Riss & Co. v. United States, 341- U. S. 907, and see Chicago
& Eastern Illinois R. Co. v. United States, 344 U. S. 917.
The last sentence of § 8 (b) provides:
"All  [administrative]  decisions  .. .shall become  a
part of the record and include a statement of (1) find-
ings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis
therefor, upon all the material issues of fact, law, or
discretion  presented  on  the  record;  and  (2)  the
appropriate  rule,  order,  sanction,  relief,  or  denial
thereof." 14
Upon  the basis of  that language,  appellants  argue  that
the Commission  should have found that the price  which
the Santa Fe agreed to pay for the Western stock of $135
per share was excessive.  Though, the Commission made
no  express  findinig  upon  that  matter  it  did  discuss  it,
pointing  out that the certified value of  Western's prop-
erties for ratemaking purposes was more than $13,500,000;
that it has no outstanding preferred stock and is relatively
free  of debt;  that it has a fine earning record;  that the
transaction  was at arm's  length;  that Minneapolis  had
146 0 Stat. 242, 5 U. S. C. § 1007 (b).

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R. CO.  v.  U.  S.  193
173  Opinion of the Court.
offered $133  per share for the stock within a few days of
the time when the Santa Fe contracted for its purchase at
$135  per share;  and that the Minneapolis sought author-
ity in  this proceeding to  acquire  the stock  at the  same
price.  The Commission concluded that if $135  per share
was a fair price for the one it was also for the other.
Upon  the  same  basis,  appellants also  argue  that the
Commission  should  have  found  that  the  Minneapolis
application was in the public interest in that its acquisi-
tion  of  Western  would  greatly  strengthen  both  Minne-
apolis  and  Western  by  eliminating  many  duplicating
facilities and by reducing operating expenses by more than
$1,770,000  annually.  The  Commission  did not make  a
specific finding upon that matter, but it  did give consid-
eration to it  and found that most of that saving-more
than  $1,300,000  annually-would  be  at the  expense  of
Western's  employees-a  matter  which,  because  of  the
express command  of clause 4 of  § 5 (2) (c)  of the Inter-
state Commerce  Act  (see  note  1),  it evidently  thought
was not consistent with the public interest.  Appellants
further  argue  that  the  Commission  should  have  found
that the Minneapolis  plan afforded adequate  protection
to  Western's  employees  by providing  for their  absorp-
tion  into  the  Minneapolis  as  attrition  among  its  own
employees permitted.  Again,  although  the Commission
made no specific finding upon that contention it did con-
sider  and  discuss  it, and  we  think  the  law required  no
more.
Appellants challenge  the Commission's failure to make
a number  of other subsidiary findings,  all of which have
been considered,  but we find that they relate to conten-
tions that are so collateral or immaterial that .the law did
not require specific  findings upon them.  By the express
terms  of  § 8 (b),  the  Commission  is  not  required  to
make subordinate findings on every collateral contention
advanced,  but  only  upon  those  issues  of  fact,  law,  or

