

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
880  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Syllabus 
recently the Court has tempered, limited, or overruled once strict verti­
cal restraint prohibitions, see, e. g., GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 57–59. 
The Dr. Miles rule is also inconsistent with a principled framework, for 
it makes little economic sense when analyzed with the Court’s other 
vertical restraint cases.  Deciding that procompetitive effects of resale 
price maintenance are insufﬁcient to overrule Dr. Miles would call into 
question cases such as Colgate and GTE Sylvania.  Respondent’s argu­
ments for reafﬁrming Dr. Miles based on stare decisis do not require a 
different result.  Pp. 899–907. 
171 Fed. Appx. 464, reversed and remanded. 
Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, 
C. J., and Scalia, Thomas, and Alito, JJ., joined.  Breyer, J., ﬁled a 
dissenting opinion, in which Stevens, Souter, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined, 
post, p. 908. 
Theodore B. Olson argued the cause for petitioner.  With 
him on the briefs were Michael L. Denger, Joshua Lipton, 
Amir C. Tayrani, Tyler A. Baker, Jeffrey S. Levinger, and 
Gary Freedman. 
Deputy Solicitor General Hungar argued the cause for 
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With 
him on the brief were Solicitor General Clement, Assistant 
Attorney General Barnett, Deputy Assistant Attorney Gen­
eral Masoudi, Lisa S. Blatt, Catherine G. O’Sullivan, and 
David Seidman. 
Robert W. Coykendall argued the cause for respondent. 
With him on the brief were Ken M. Peterson, Tim J. Moore, 
Nelson J. Roach, D. Neil Smith, and Stephen R. McAllister. 
Barbara D. Underwood, Solicitor General of New York, 
argued the cause for the State of New York et al. as amici 
curiae urging afﬁrmance.  With her on the brief were An­
drew M. Cuomo, Attorney General of New York, Benjamin 
N.  Gutman,  Acting  Deputy  Solicitor  General,  Daniel  J. 
Chepaitis, Assistant Solicitor General, and Jay L. Himes and 
Robert L. Hubbard, Assistant Attorneys General, and the 
Attorneys  General  for  their  respective  States  as  follows: 
Talis J. Colberg of Alaska, Dustin McDaniel of Arkansas, 
Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Joseph R. Biden III of 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  881 
Opinion of the Court 
Delaware,  Bill  McCollum  of  Florida,  Mark  J.  Bennett  of 
Hawaii, Lawrence G. Wasden of Idaho, Lisa Madigan of Illi­
nois, Thomas Miller of Iowa, Paul Morrison of Kansas, Greg 
Stumbo of Kentucky, Charles C. Foti, Jr., of Louisiana, G. 
Steven  Rowe  of  Maine,  Douglas  F.  Gansler  of  Maryland, 
Martha Coakley of Massachusetts, Mike Cox of Michigan, 
Lori Swanson of Minnesota, Jim Hood of Mississippi, Jere­
miah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Mike McGrath of Mon­
tana, Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada, Kelly A. Ayotte of 
New Hampshire, Stuart Rabner of New Jersey, Gary King 
of New Mexico, Roy Cooper of North Carolina, Marc Dann 
of Ohio, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers 
of Oregon, Thomas W. Corbett, Jr., of Pennsylvania, Henry 
McMaster of South Carolina, Larry Long of South Dakota, 
Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, 
Robert M. McKenna of Washington, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., 
of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Crank of Wyoming.* 
Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.
 
In Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 220
 
U. S. 373 (1911), the Court established the rule that it is per 
se illegal under § 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1, for a 
manufacturer to agree with its distributor to set the mini­
mum price the distributor can charge for the manufactur­
er’s goods.  The question presented by the instant case is 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the American 
Petroleum Institute by Robert A. Long, Harry M. Ng, and Douglas W. 
Morris; for CTIA—The Wireless Association by Roy T. Englert, Jr., Don­
ald J. Russell, and Michael Field Altshul; for Economists by Joseph Ang­
land and Stephen V. Bomse; and for PING, Inc., by Thomas C. Walsh, 
Lawrence G. Scarborough, Aaron S. Bayer, and Robert M. Langer. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the American 
Antitrust Institute by Albert Foer; for the Anderson Economic Group, 
LLC, by Theodore R. Bolema; for the Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse 
Corp. by Jonathan W. Cuneo, Matthew Wiener, and Robert J. Cynkar; and 
for the Consumer Federation of America by Peter A. Barile III. 
Eugene Crew ﬁled a brief for William S. Comanor et al. as amici curiae. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
882  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
whether the Court should overrule the per se rule and allow 
resale price maintenance agreements to be judged by the 
rule of reason, the usual standard applied to determine if 
there is a violation of § 1.  The Court has abandoned the rule 
of per se illegality for other vertical restraints a manufac­
turer imposes on its distributors.  Respected economic ana­
lysts, furthermore, conclude that vertical price restraints can 
have procompetitive effects.  We now hold that Dr. Miles 
should be overruled and that vertical price restraints are to 
be judged by the rule of reason. 
I 
Petitioner, Leegin Creative Leather Products, Inc. (Lee­
gin), designs, manufactures, and distributes leather goods 
and accessories.  In 1991, Leegin began to sell belts under 
the brand name “Brighton.”  The Brighton brand has now 
expanded into a variety of women’s fashion accessories.  It 
is sold across the United States in over 5,000 retail establish­
ments, for the most part independent, small boutiques and 
specialty stores.  Leegin’s president, Jerry Kohl, also has an 
interest in about 70 stores that sell Brighton products.  Lee­
gin asserts that, at least for its products, small retailers treat 
customers  better,  provide  customers  more  services,  and 
make their shopping experience more satisfactory than do 
larger,  often  impersonal  retailers.  Kohl  explained:  “[W]e 
want the consumers to get a different experience than they 
get in Sam’s Club or in Wal-Mart.  And you can’t get that 
kind of experience or support or customer service from a 
store like Wal-Mart.”  5 Record 127. 
Respondent, PSKS, Inc. (PSKS), operates Kay’s Kloset, a 
women’s apparel store in Lewisville, Texas.  Kay’s Kloset 
buys from about 75 different manufacturers and at one time 
sold the Brighton brand.  It ﬁrst started purchasing Brigh­
ton goods from Leegin in 1995.  Once it began selling the 
brand, the store promoted Brighton.  For example, it ran 
Brighton advertisements and had Brighton days in the store. 

