OCTOBER  TERM, 2000
Syllabus
MAJOR  LEAGUE  BASEBALL  PLAYERS
ASSOCIATION  v. GARVEY
ON  PETITION  FOR  WRIT  OF  CERTIORARI  TO  THE  UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 00-1210.  Decided May 14, 2001
After arbitrators found that the Major League Baseball Clubs (Clubs) col-
luded in the market for free-agent services after the 1985, 1986, and
1987 baseball seasons, the Clubs and petitioner agreed that the Clubs
would  establish  a fund  to  be  distributed  to injured  players.  The
'"Framework"  that petitioner designed to evaluate individual claims pro-
vided, inter alia, that players could seek an arbitrator's review of a
distribution plan, but the arbitrator could determine only whether the
Framework and its criteria were properly applied.  Respondent Garvey
sought arbitration after his damages claim was rejected.  At his hear-
ing, he produced a letter from San Diego Padres president and CEO
Smith, stating that Smith had offered to extend Garvey's contract, but
the Padres refused to negotiate thereafter due to collusion.  The arbi-
trator denied  the claim because the letter contradicted  Smith's testi-
mony denying collusion in earlier arbitration proceedings.  The Federal
District Court denied Garvey's motion to vacate the arbitrator's award.
In Garvey I, the Ninth Circuit reversed.  It found that review of the
award's merits was warranted because the arbitrator's refusal to credit
Smith's letter was inexplicable and bordered on irrational since arbitra-
tors had previously concluded that the owners' testimony denying collu-
sion was false, and that there was strong support for the letter's truth-
fulness.  On remand, the District Court remanded the case for further
arbitration, and Garvey appealed.  Finding that Garvey I left only one
possible result, the Ninth Circuit in Garvey I  reversed and directed
the District Court to remand the case to arbitration with instructions
to enter an award for Garvey.
Held  The Ninth Circuit's decision to resolve the dispute and bar further
proceedings is at odds with governing law.  Judicial review of a labor-
arbitration  decision pursuant to a collective-bargaining  agreement is
very limited.  Courts are not authorized to review an arbitrator's de-
cision on the merits despite allegations that the decision rests on fac-
tual errors or misinterprets the parties' agreement.  Paperworkersv .
Misco, Inc., 484 U. S. 29, 36. Only when the arbitrator effectively dis-
penses his own brand of industrial justice may his decision be unenforce-
able.  Steelworkers v. EnterpriseW  heel & Car Corp., 363 U.S.5 93,597.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 532 U. S. 504 (2001)
Per Curiam
When the judiciary weighs a particular claim's merits, it usurps a func-
tion entrusted to the arbitrator.  As a rule a court must not foreclose
further proceedings by settling the merits according to its own judg-
ment of the appropriate result.  It should simply vacate the award,
leaving open the possibility of further proceedings if the agreement per-
mits them.  The Ninth  Circuit recited these principles but erred in
applying them.  In Garvey I, it overturned the arbitrator's decision be-
cause it disagreed with his factual findings with respect to credibility,
but even serious error on the arbitrator's part does not justify overturn-
ing his decision where, as here, he is construing a contract and acting
within the scope of his authority, Misco, supra, at 38.  And in Garvey
II, the court resolved the dispute's merits based on its assessment of
the record before the arbitrator, which it ordinarily cannot do, no matter
how erroneous  the arbitrator's  decision, Misco, supra, at 40, n.  10.
Even when the arbitrator's award may properly be vacated, the appro-
priate remedy is to remand the case for further arbitration proceedings.
Certiorari granted; 243 F. 3d 547, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit here rejected
an arbitrator's factual findings and then resolved the merits
of the parties' dispute instead of remanding the case for fur-
ther arbitration proceedings.  Because the court's determi-
nation conflicts with our cases limiting review of an arbitra-
tor's award entered pursuant to an agreement between  an
employer and a labor organization and prescribing the appro-
priate remedy where vacation of the award is warranted, we
grant the petition for a writ of certiorari and reverse.  The
motions for leave to file briefs amicus curiae of the National
Academy of Arbitrators and the Office of the Commissioner
of Baseball are granted.
In the late 1980's, petitioner Major League Baseball Play-
ers  Association  (Association)  filed  grievances  against  the
Major League Baseball Clubs (Clubs), claiming the Clubs had
colluded in the market for free-agent services after the 1985,
1986, and 1987 baseball seasons, in violation of the industry's
collective-bargaining  agreement.  A free  agent is a  player
who  may  contract  with  any  Club, rather  than  one  whose
right to  contract  is  restricted  to a particular  Club.  In a

NEW PAGE

506  MAJOR  LEAGUE  BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN. v. GARVEY
Per Curiam
series of decisions, arbitrators found collusion by the Clubs
and  damage  to  the  players.  The  Association  and  Clubs
subsequently  entered  into a  Global  Settlement  Agreement
(Agreement), pursuant to which the Clubs established a $280
million fund to be distributed to injured players.  The Asso-
ciation also designed a "Framework" to evaluate the individ-
ual player's  claims, and, applying that Framework,  recom-
mended distribution plans for claims relating to a particular
season or seasons.
The  Framework provided that players  could seek an ar-
bitrator's  review  of the  distribution  plan.  The  arbitrator
would  determine  "'only  whether the approved  Framework
and the criteria set forth therein have been properly applied
in the proposed Distribution Plan."'  Garvey v. Roberts,2 03
F. 3d 580, 583 (CA9 2000)  (Garvey I).  The Framework set
forth factors to be considered in evaluating players' claims,
as well  as specific requirements  for lost contract-extension
claims.  Such claims were cognizable  "'only  in those cases
where  evidence  exists that  a specific offer  of an extension
was made by a club prior to collusion only to thereafter be
withdrawn when the collusion scheme was initiated."'  Id.,
at 584.
Respondent Steve Garvey, a retired, highly regarded first
baseman, submitted a claim for damages of approximately $3
million.  He alleged that his contract  with the San Diego
Padres was not extended to the 1988 and  1989 seasons  due
to  collusion.  The  Association  rejected  Garvey's  claim  in
February  1996, because he presented  no evidence that the
Padres actually  offered to extend his contract.  Garvey ob-
jected, and  an arbitration hearing was  held.  He testified
that the Padres offered to extend his contract for the 1988
and  1989  seasons  and then  withdrew  the offer  after they
began  colluding  with  other  teams.  He  presented  a  June
1996 letter from Ballard Smith, Padres' President and CEO
from  1979 to 1987, stating that, before the end  of the 1985
season,  Smith offered to  extend Garvey's contract through

