

218  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
branded  cigarettes.  Nonetheless,  at least some  portion  of
the list price increase was reflected in a higher net price to
the consumer.
In  December 1985, Brown & Williamson attempted to in-
crease  its list prices, but retracted  the announced  increase
when the other firms adhered to their existing prices.  Thus,
after Liggett's June 1985 increase, list prices on generics did
not change again until the summer of 1986, when a pattern
of  twice  yearly  increases  in  tandem  with  the  full-priced
branded  cigarettes  was  established.  The dollar  amount of
these increases was the same for generic and full-priced ciga-
rettes, which resulted in a greater percentage price increase
in the less expensive  generic cigarettes  and a narrowing of
the percentage  gap  between  the list price  of branded  and
black and white  cigarettes, from approximately 38% at the
time  Brown & Williamson entered  the segment to approxi-
mately 27% at the time of trial.  Also by the time of trial,
five of the six manufacturers,  including  Liggett, had  intro-
duced so-called "subgenerics," a category of branded generic
cigarettes that sold at a discount of 50% or more off the list
price of full-priced branded cigarettes.
After a 115-day  trial involving almost 3,000  exhibits and
over a score of witnesses, the jury returned a verdict in favor
of Liggett, finding on the special verdict form that Brown &
Williamson had  engaged  in price discrimination  that had  a
reasonable possibility of injuring competition in the domestic
cigarette  market  as  a  whole.  The  jury  awarded  Liggett
$49.6 million  in damages,  which the District Court trebled
to $148.8 million.  After reviewing the record, however, the
District Court held  that Brown  & Williamson  was  entitled
to judgment as a matter of law on three separate grounds:
lack of injury to competition, lack of antitrust injury to Lig-
gett, and lack  of a  causal  link between  the discriminatory
rebates and Liggett's alleged injury.  Liggett Group, Inc. v.
Brown  &  Williamson  Tobacco  Corp.,  748  F.  Supp.  344
(MDNC 1990).  With respect to the first issue, which is the

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
only one before us, the District Court found that no slowing
of the growth rate of generics, and thus no injury to competi-
tion, was possible unless there had been tacit coordination of
prices in the economy  segment of the cigarette market  by
the various  manufacturers.  Id.,  at 354-355.  The  District
Court held that a reasonable jury could come to but one con-
clusion about the existence  of such  coordination among the
firms contending for shares of the economy segment:  it did
not exist, and Brown & Williamson therefore had no reason-
able possibility of limiting the growth of the segment.  Id.,
at 356-358.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
affirmed.  Liggett Group, Inc. v. Brown & Williamson To-
bacco Corp., 964 F. 2d 335 (1992).  The Court of Appeals held
that the dynamic of conscious parallelism among oligopolists
could not produce  competitive injury in a predatory pricing
setting, which necessarily involves a price cut by one of the
oligopolists.  Id.,  at  342.  In  the Court  of Appeals'  view,
"[t]o  rely on the characteristics of an oligopoly to assure re-
coupment of losses from  a predatory  pricing  scheme after
one oligopolist has made a competitive move is ...e conomi-
cally irrational."  Ibid.
We granted certiorari, 506 U. S.9 84 (1992), and now affirm.
II
A
Price discrimination is made unlawful by ยง 2(a) of the Clay-
ton Act, 38 Stat. 730, as amended by the Robinson-Patman
Act, which provides:
"It shall be unlawful  for any  person  engaged  in  com-
merce, in the course  of such commerce,  either directly
or indirectly, to discriminate in price between different
purchasers of commodities  of like grade and quality...
where the effect of such discrimination may be substan-
tially to lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly
in any line of commerce, or to injure, destroy, or prevent

NEW PAGE

220  BROOKE  GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
competition with any person who either grants or know-
ingly receives the benefit of such discrimination, or with
customers of either of them."  15 U. S. C. ยง 13(a).
Although  we have reiterated  that "'a  price  discrimination
within the meaning of [this] provision is merely a price dif-
ference,"' Texaco Inc. v. Hasbrouck, 496 U. S. 543, 558 (1990)
(quoting FTC v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 363  U. S.  536,  549
(1960)), the statute as a practical matter could not, and does
not, ban all price differences  charged  to "different purchas-
ers of commodities of like grade and quality."  Instead, the
statute  contains  a  number of important  limitations, one of
which is central  to evaluating  Liggett's claim:  By its terms,
the  Robinson-Patman  Act  condemns  price  discrimination
only  to the extent  that it threatens  to injure  competition.
The  availability of statutory defenses  permitting  price dis-
crimination  when it is based on differences  in costs, ยง 13(a),
"changing conditions affecting the market for or the market-
ability of the goods concerned," ibid., or conduct undertaken
"in good faith to meet an equally low price of a competitor,"
ยง 13(b);  Standard Oil Co. v. FTC, 340  U. S. 231,  250 (1951),
confirms that Congress did not intend to outlaw price differ-
ences that result from or further the forces  of competition.
Thus, "the  Robinson-Patman  Act should  be  construed  con-
sistently with broader policies of the antitrust laws."  Great
Atlantic & Pacific Tea  Co. v. FTC, 440  U. S. 69,  80,  n.  13
(1979).  See also Automatic Canteen Co. of America v. FTC,
346 U. S. 61,  63, 74 (1953).
Liggett contends that Brown  & Williamson's  discrimina-
tory  volume  rebates  to  wholesalers  threatened  substantial
competitive injury by furthering a predatory pricing scheme
designed  to  purge  competition  from the  economy segment
of the cigarette market.  This type of injury, which  harms
direct competitors  of the discriminating  seller, is known as
primary-line  injury.  See  FTC  v.  Anheuser-Busch, Inc.,
supra, at 538.  We last addressed  primary-line  injury over
25  years  ago, in  Utah Pie Co. v. Continental Baking Co.,

