547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
28  OCTOBER TERM, 2005 
Syllabus 
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. et al. v.

INDEPENDENT INK, INC.

certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the federal circuit 
No. 04–1329.  Argued November 29, 2005—Decided March 1, 2006 
Petitioners manufacture and market printing systems that include a pat­
ented printhead and ink container and unpatented ink, which they sell 
to original equipment manufacturers who agree that they will purchase 
ink exclusively from petitioners and that neither they nor their custom­
ers will reﬁll the patented containers with ink of any kind.  Respondent 
developed ink with the same chemical composition as petitioners’ ink. 
After petitioner Trident’s infringement action was dismissed, respond­
ent ﬁled suit seeking a judgment of noninfringement and invalidity of 
Trident’s patents on the ground that petitioners are engaged in illegal 
“tying” and monopolization in violation of §§1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. 
Granting petitioners summary judgment, the District Court rejected 
respondent’s argument that petitioners necessarily have market power 
as a matter of law by virtue of the patent on their printhead system, 
thereby rendering the tying arrangements per se violations of the anti­
trust laws.  After carefully reviewing this Court’s tying-arrangements 
decisions, the Federal Circuit reversed as to the § 1 claim, concluding 
that it had to follow this Court’s precedents until overruled by this 
Court. 
Held: Because a patent does not necessarily confer market power upon 
the patentee, in all cases involving a tying arrangement, the plaintiff 
must prove that the defendant has market power in the tying product. 
Pp. 33–46. 
(a) Over the years, this Court’s strong disapproval of tying arrange­
ments has substantially diminished, as the Court has moved from rely­
ing on assumptions to requiring a showing of market power in the tying 
product.  The assumption in earlier decisions that such “arrangements 
serve  hardly  any  purpose  beyond  the  suppression  of  competition,” 
Standard Oil Co. of Cal. v. United States, 337 U. S. 293, 305–306, was 
rejected in United States Steel Corp. v. Fortner Enterprises, Inc., 429 
U. S. 610, 622 (Fortner II), and again in Jefferson Parish Hospital Dist. 
No. 2 v.  Hyde, 466 U. S. 2, both of which involved unpatented tying 
products.  Nothing in Jefferson Parish suggested a rebuttable pre­
sumption of market power applicable to tying arrangements involving a 
patent on the tying good.  Pp. 33–38. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  29 
Syllabus 
(b) The presumption that a patent confers market power arose out­
side the antitrust context as part of the patent misuse doctrine, and 
migrated to antitrust law in International Salt Co. v. United States, 332 
U. S. 392.  See also Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488; 
United States v. Loew’s Inc., 371 U. S. 38.  Pp. 38–40. 
(c) When Congress codiﬁed the patent laws for the ﬁrst time, it initi­
ated the untwining of the patent misuse doctrine and antitrust jurispru­
dence.  At the same time that this Court’s antitrust jurisprudence con­
tinued to rely on the assumption that tying arrangements generally 
serve no legitimate business purpose, Congress began chipping away at 
that assumption in the patent misuse context from whence it came. 
Then, four years after Jefferson Parish repeated the presumption that 
patents confer market power, Congress amended the Patent Code to 
eliminate it in the patent misuse context.  While that amendment does 
not expressly refer to the antitrust laws, it invites reappraisal of Inter­
national Salt’s per se rule.  After considering the congressional judg­
ment reﬂected in the amendment, this Court concludes that tying ar­
rangements involving patented products should be evaluated under the 
standards of cases like Fortner II and Jefferson Parish rather than the 
per se rule in Morton Salt and Loew’s.  Any conclusion that an arrange­
ment is unlawful must be supported by proof of power in the relevant 
market rather than by a mere presumption thereof.  Pp. 40–43. 
(d) Respondent’s alternatives to retention of the per se rule—that the 
Court endorse a rebuttable presumption that patentees possess market 
power when they condition the purchase of the patented product on an 
agreement to buy unpatented goods exclusively from the patentee, or 
differentiate between tying arrangements involving requirements ties 
and other types of tying arrangements—are rejected.  Pp. 43–46. 
(e) Because respondent reasonably relied on this Court’s prior opin­
ions in moving for summary judgment without offering evidence of the 
relevant market or proving petitioners’ power within that market, re­
spondent should be given a fair opportunity to develop and introduce 
evidence on that issue, as well as other relevant issues, when the case 
returns to the District Court.  P. 46. 
396 F. 3d 1342, vacated and remanded. 
Stevens, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Mem­
bers joined, except Alito, J., who took no part in the consideration or 
decision of the case. 
Andrew J. Pincus argued the cause for petitioners.  With 
him on the briefs were Richard J. Favretto, Christopher J. 
Kelly, Nickolai G. Levin, and Stewart S. Hudnut. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
30  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Counsel 
Deputy Solicitor General Hungar argued the cause for 
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With 
him on the brief were Solicitor General Clement, Acting 
Assistant  Attorney  General  Barnett,  Jeffrey  P.  Minear, 
Catherine G. O’Sullivan, Steven J. Mintz, Frances Marshall, 
John M. Whealan, Cynthia C. Lynch, and Thomas Krause. 
Kathleen M. Sullivan argued the cause for respondent. 
With her on the briefs were Daniel H. Bromberg, Margret 
M. Caruso, Elizabeth B. Wydra, and Edward F. O’Connor.* 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the American 
Bar Association by Robert J. Grey, Jr., Richard J. Wallis, and Kevin D. 
McDonald; for the Houston Intellectual Property Law Association by 
Kenneth E. Kuffner; for the Intellectual Property Law Association of Chi­
cago by Edward D. Manzo, Bradford P. Lyerla, and Glen P. Belvis; for 
the Intellectual Property Owners Association by Gary M. Hoffman, Ken­
neth W. Brothers, and Douglas K. Norman; for the Motion Picture Associ­
ation of America, Inc., et al. by Daniel G. Swanson, Julian W. Poon, Dan­
iel E. Robbins, and Victor S. Perlman; for the New York Intellectual 
Property Law Association by David F. Ryan; for the Patent, Trademark & 
Copyright Section of the Bar Association of the District of Columbia by 
David W. Long, Blair Elizabeth Taylor, and Lynn E. Eccleston; for Pﬁzer 
Inc. by Stephen A. Stack, Jr., George G. Gordon, Rebecca P. Dick, and 
Kent S. Bernard; for Verizon Communications by Richard G. Taranto, 
Aaron M. Panner, and John Thorne; and for the Washington Legal Foun­
dation by William C. MacLeod, Daniel J. Popeo, and David Price. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the District of 
Columbia et al. by Robert J. Spagnoletti, Attorney General of the District 
of Columbia, Edward E. Schwab, Deputy Attorney General, Don A. Resni­
koff, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Anika Cooper, Assistant At­
torney General, by Bill Lockyer, Attorney General of California, Richard 
M. Frank, Chief Deputy Attorney General, Tom Greene, Chief Assistant 
Attorney General, Kathleen Foote, Senior Assistant Attorney General, 
and Ann Marie Marciarille, Deputy Attorney General, and by the Attor­
neys General for their respective States as follows: Terry Goddard of Ari­
zona, Charles J. Crist, Jr., of Florida, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, Charles 
C. Foti, Jr., of Louisiana, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. 
Reilly of Massachusetts, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Jim Petro 
of Ohio, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, Dar­
rell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Crank of Wyoming; 
for AARP et al. by Barbara Jones, Bruce Vignery, and Michael Schuster; 

