

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  279 
Opinion of the Court 
conﬂict, they add, there is no “repugnance” or “incompatibil­
ity,” and this Court may not imply that securities law pre­
cludes an antitrust suit. 
B 
We accept the premises of respondents’ argument—that 
the SEC has full regulatory authority over these practices, 
that it has actively exercised that authority, but that the 
SEC has disapproved (and, for argument’s sake, we assume 
that it will continue to disapprove) the conduct that the anti­
trust complaints attack.  Nonetheless, we cannot accept re­
spondents’ conclusion.  Rather, several considerations taken 
together lead us to ﬁnd that, even on these prorespondent 
assumptions,  securities  law  and  antitrust  law  are  clearly 
incompatible. 
First, to permit antitrust actions such as the present one 
still  threatens  serious  securities-related  harm.  For  one 
thing, an unusually serious legal line-drawing problem re­
mains unabated.  In the present context only a ﬁne, com­
plex, detailed line separates activity that the SEC permits 
or encourages (for which respondents must concede antitrust 
immunity) from activity that the SEC must (and inevitably 
will) forbid (and which, on respondents’ theory, should be 
open to antitrust attack). 
For example, in respect to “laddering” the SEC forbids an 
underwriter to “[s]olici[t] customers prior to the completion 
of the distribution regarding whether and at what price and 
in what quantity they intend to place immediate aftermarket 
orders for IPO stock,” 70 Fed. Reg. 19675–19676 (emphasis 
deleted); 17 CFR §§ 242.100–242.105.  But at the same time 
the SEC permits, indeed encourages, underwriters (as part 
of the “bookbuilding” process) to “inquir[e] as to a customer’s 
desired future position in the longer term (for example, three 
to six months), and the price or prices at which the customer 
might accumulate that position without reference to immedi­
ate aftermarket activity.”  70 Fed. Reg. 19676. 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
280  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
It will often be difﬁcult for someone who is not familiar 
with accepted syndicate practices to determine with conﬁ­
dence whether an underwriter has insisted that an investor 
buy more shares in the immediate aftermarket (forbidden), 
or has simply allocated more shares to an investor willing 
to purchase additional shares of that issue in the long run 
(permitted).  And  who  but  a  securities  expert  could  say 
whether the present SEC rules set forth a virtually perma­
nent line, unlikely to change in ways that would permit the 
sorts of “laddering-like” conduct that it now seems to forbid? 
Cf. Gordon, supra, at 690–691. 
Similarly, in respect to “tying” and other efforts to obtain 
an  increased  commission  from  future  sales,  the  SEC  has 
sought to prohibit an underwriter “from demanding . . . an 
offer from [its] customers of any payment or other consider­
ation [such as the purchase of a different security] in addition 
to the security’s stated consideration.”  69 Fed. Reg. 75785 
(2004).  But the SEC would permit a ﬁrm to “allocat[e] IPO 
shares to a customer because the customer has separately 
retained the ﬁrm for other services, when the customer has 
not paid excessive compensation in relation to those serv­
ices.”  Ibid., and n. 108.  The National Association of Secu­
rities Dealers (NASD), over which the SEC exercises super­
visory authority, has also proposed a rule that would prohibit 
a member underwriter from “offering or threatening to with­
hold” IPO shares “as consideration or inducement for the 
receipt of compensation that is excessive in relation to the 
services provided.”  Id., at 77810.  The NASD would allow, 
however, a customer legitimately to compete for IPO shares 
by increasing the level and quantity of compensation it pays 
to the underwriter.  See ibid. (describing NASD Proposed 
Rule 2712(a)). 
Under these standards, to distinguish what is forbidden 
from what is allowed requires an understanding of just when, 
in relation to services provided, a commission is “excessive,” 
indeed, so “excessive” that it will remain permanently for­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  281 
Opinion of the Court 
bidden, see Gordon, 422 U. S., at 690–691.  And who but the 
SEC itself could do so with conﬁdence? 
For another thing, evidence tending to show unlawful anti­
trust activity and evidence tending to show lawful securities 
marketing activity may overlap, or prove identical.  Con­
sider, for instance, a conversation between an underwriter 
and an investor about how long an investor intends to hold 
the new shares (and at what price), say, a conversation that 
elicits comments concerning both the investor’s short and 
longer term plans.  That exchange might, as a plaintiff sees 
it, provide evidence of an underwriter’s insistence upon “lad­
dering”  or,  as  a  defendant  sees  it,  provide  evidence  of  a 
lawful effort to allocate shares to those who will hold them 
for a longer time.  See Brief for United States as Amicus 
Curiae 27. 
Similarly, the same somewhat ambiguous conversation 
might help to establish an effort to collect an unlawfully high 
commission  through  atypically  high  commissions  on  later 
sales or through the sales of less popular stocks.  Or it might 
prove  only  that  the  underwriter  allocates  more  popular 
shares to investors who will help stabilize the aftermarket 
share price.  See, e. g., Department of Enforcement v.  Re­
spondent, Disciplinary Proc. No. CAF030014 (NASD Hear­
ing Panel, Mar. 3, 2006), pp. 12–13 (redacted decision), called 
for review, Complaint No. CAF030014 (NASD Nat. Adjudica­
tory Council, Apr. 11, 2006). 
Further, antitrust plaintiffs may bring lawsuits through­
out the Nation in dozens of different courts with different 
nonexpert judges and different nonexpert juries.  In light 
of the nuanced nature of the evidentiary evaluations neces­
sary to separate the permissible from the impermissible, it 
will prove difﬁcult for those many different courts to reach 
consistent  results.  And,  given  the  fact-related  nature  of 
many such evaluations, it will also prove difﬁcult to ensure 
that the different courts evaluate similar fact patterns con­
sistently.  The result is an unusually high risk that different 

