

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  185 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
II 
For decades, juries have routinely inferred the requisite 
injury to competition under the Robinson-Patman Act from 
the fact that a manufacturer sells goods to one retailer at a 
higher price than to its competitors.  This rule dates back 
to the following discussion of competitive injury in Justice 
Black’s opinion for the Court in FTC v. Morton Salt Co., 334 
U. S. 37 (1948): 
“It is argued that the ﬁndings fail to show that respond­
ent’s discriminatory discounts had in fact caused injury 
to  competition.  There  are  speciﬁc ﬁndings  that  such 
injuries  had  resulted  from  respondent’s  discounts,  al­
though the statute does not require the Commission to 
ﬁnd that injury has actually resulted.  The statute re­
quires no more than that the effect of the prohibited 
price  discriminations  ‘may  be  substantially  to  lessen 
competition . . . or to injure, destroy, or prevent competi­
tion.’  After a careful consideration of this provision of 
the Robinson-Patman Act, we have said that ‘the statute 
does not require that the discriminations must in fact 
have harmed competition, but only that there is a rea­
sonable possibility that they “may” have such an effect.’ 
Corn Products Co. v. Federal Trade Comm’n, 324 U. S. 
726, 742.  Here the Commission found what would ap­
pear to be obvious, that the competitive opportunities of 
certain merchants were injured when they had to pay 
respondent substantially more for their goods than their 
competitors  had  to  pay.  The  ﬁndings  are  adequate.” 
Id., at 45–47 (footnote omitted). 
We have treated as competitors those who sell “in a single, 
interstate  retail  market.”  Falls  City  Industries,  Inc.  v. 
Vanco Beverage, Inc., 460 U. S. 428, 436 (1983); cf. Tampa 
Elec. Co. v.  Nashville Coal Co., 365 U. S. 320, 327 (1961). 
Under this approach—uncontroversial until today—Reeder 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
186  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
would readily prevail.  There is ample evidence that Volvo 
charged Reeder higher prices than it charged to competing 
dealers in the same market over a period of many months. 
That those higher prices impaired Reeder’s ability to com­
pete with those dealers is just as obvious as the injury to 
competition described by the Court in Morton Salt. 
Volvo nonetheless argues that no competitive injury could 
have occurred because it never discriminated against Reeder 
when Reeder and another Volvo dealer were seeking conces­
sions with regard to the same ultimate customer.  In Volvo’s 
view, each transaction was a separate market, one deﬁned 
by the customer and those dealers whom it had asked for 
bids.  For  each  speciﬁc  customer  who  has  solicited  bids, 
Reeder’s only “competitors” were the other dealers making 
bids.  Accordingly, if none of these other dealers were Volvo 
dealers, then Reeder suffered no competitive harm (relative 
to other Volvo dealers) when Volvo gave it a discriminatorily 
high price. 
Unlike the Court, I cannot accept Volvo’s vision.  Nothing 
in the statute or in our precedent suggests that “competi­
tion” is evaluated by a transaction-speciﬁc inquiry, and such 
an approach makes little sense.  It requires us to ignore the 
fact that competition among truck dealers is a continuing 
war waged over time rather than a series of wholly discrete 
events.  Each time Reeder managed to resell trucks it had 
purchased  at  discriminatorily  high  prices,  it  was  forced 
either to accept lower proﬁt margins than were available to 
favored Volvo dealers or to pass on the higher costs to its 
customers (who then might well go to a different dealer the 
next time).  And we have long indicated that lost proﬁts rel­
ative to a competitor are a proper basis for permitting the 
Morton Salt inference.  See, e. g., Falls City Industries, 460 
U. S., at 435 (noting that to overcome the Morton Salt infer­
ence, a defendant needs “evidence breaking the causal con­
nection between a price differential and lost sales or proﬁts” 
(emphasis added)).  By ignoring these commonsense points, 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  187 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
the Court gives short shrift to the Robinson-Patman Act’s 
prophylactic intent.  See  15 U. S. C. § 13(a)  (barring price 
discrimination where “the effect of such discrimination may 
be  substantially  to  lessen competition”  (emphasis  added)); 
see also, e. g., Morton Salt, 334 U. S., at 46. 
The Court appears to hold that, absent head-to-head bid­
ding with a favored dealer, a dealer in a competitive bidding 
market  can  suffer  no  competitive  injury.4  It  is  unclear 
whether that holding is limited to franchised dealers who do 
not maintain inventories, or excludes virtually all franchisees 
from the effective protection of the Act.  In either event, it 
is not faithful to the statutory text. 
III 
As the Court recognizes, the Robinson-Patman Act was 
primarily intended to protect small retailers from the vig­
orous competition afforded by chainstores and other large 
volume purchasers.  Whether that statutory mission repre­
sented sound economic policy is not merely the subject of 
serious debate, but may well merit Judge Bork’s character­
ization  as  “wholly  mistaken  economic  theory.” 5  I  do  not 
suggest that disagreement with the policy of the Act has 
played a conscious role in my colleagues’ unprecedented deci­
sion today.  I cannot avoid, however, identifying the irony 
in a decision refusing to adhere to the text of the Act in a 
case in which the jury credited evidence that discriminatory 
4Indeed, if Volvo’s argument about the meaning of “purchaser,” see 
ante, at 179–180, ultimately meets with this Court’s approval, then the 
Robinson-Patman Act will simply not apply in the special-order context. 
Any time a special-order dealer fails to complete a transaction because the 
high price drives away its ultimate customer, there will be no Robinson-
Patman violation because the dealer will not meet the “purchaser” re­
quirement, and any time the dealer completes the transaction but at a 
discriminatorily high price, there will be no violation because the dealer 
has no “competition” (as the majority sees it) for that speciﬁc transaction 
at the moment of purchase. 
5 R. Bork, The Antitrust Paradox 382 (1978). 

