

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring
against AT&T amount to no more than an intentional refusal
to provide  services  to respondent in an amount or manner
contrary to the filed tariff.
I write separately to note that this finding is necessary to
the conclusion that respondent's state-law tort claim may not
proceed.  As  the majority  correctly  states, the  filed  rate
doctrine  exists  to  protect  the  "antidiscriminatory  policy
which lies at 'the heart of the common-carrier  section of the
Communications Act."'  Ante, at 223.  Central to that anti-
discriminatory  policy  is  the notion  that all  purchasers  of
services covered by the tariff will pay the same rate.  The
filed  rate doctrine furthers this policy by disallowing  suits
brought to enforce agreements to provide services on terms
different from those listed in the tariff.  This ensures that
the tariff governs  the terms by which the common carrier
provides those services to its customers.
It is  crucial  to note, however,  that this is all  the tariff
governs.  In order  for the filed rate doctrine  to serve  its
purpose, therefore, it need pre-empt  only those  suits that
seek to alter the terms  and conditions  provided for in the
tariff.  This is how the doctrine has been applied in the past.
In Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155 (1912), for
example, respondent entered into a contract with petitioner
to ship horses  from Springfield, Illinois, to New York City
via a special fast train.  The tariff that the petitioner had
filed "did not provide for an expedited service, nor for trans-
portation by any particular train."  Id., at 163.  The Court
ruled that respondents  suit to enforce the special arrange-
ment could not proceed:
"An advantage accorded by special agreement which af-
fects the value of the service to the shipper and its cost
to the carrier should be published in the tariffs, and for
a breach of such a contract, relief will be denied, because
its allowance without such publication is a violation of
the act.  It is also illegal because it is an undue advan-

NEW PAGE

280  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL  OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring
tage in that it is not one open to all others in the same
situation."  Id., at 165.
In Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260 U. S. 156,
163 (1922), the question was not whether a separate contract
could be enforced, but rather whether petitioner could bring
an antitrust complaint challenging the rate that respondents
had filed in their tariff.  The Court ruled that he could not:
"The legal rights of shipper as against carrier in respect
to a rate are measured by the published tariff.  Unless
and until suspended or set aside, this rate is made, for all
purposes, the legal rate, as between carrier and shipper.
The rights as defined by the tariff cannot be varied or
enlarged  by  either  contract  or  tort  of  the  carrier."
Ibid. (emphasis added).
In this case respondent's  contract  claim seeks to enforce
side arrangements  that it  made with petitioner.  Respond-
ent  contends  that petitioner  promised  to  provide  it  with
services  on terms  different from those listed in the tariff.
As the above cases make clear, the filed rate doctrine bars
such a claim.  Respondents tort claim is entirely derivative
of its contractual claim, and the Court is therefore correct in
concluding that the doctrine also bars the tort claim.
The  tariff does not govern, however, the entirety of the
relationship between the common carrier and its customers.
For  example, it  does  not affect whatever  duties  state law
might impose on petitioner to refrain from intentionally in-
terfering with respondent's relationships with its customers
by  means  other  than  failing  to  honor  unenforceable  side
agreements, or to refrain from engaging in slander or libel,
or  to satisfy other  contractual  obligations.  The fied rate
doctrine's  purpose is to ensure that the filed rates are the
exclusive  source of the terms and  conditions by which the
common carrier provides to its customers the services cov-
ered by the tariff.  It  does not serve as a shield against all

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
actions  based in state law.  It is with  this understanding
that I join the Court's opinion.
JUSTICE STEVENS,  dissenting.
Everyone  agrees  that respondent's  tortious  interference
claim  would  be barred  by  the filed  rate  doctrine  if it is
"wholly derivative  of the contract  claim for additional  and
better services."  Ante, at 226 (majority opinion);  ante, at
228  (REHNQUIST,  C.  J.,  concurring).  Moreover,  it  is  true
that when the Magistrate Judge ruled that respondent's case
would not support a punitive damages award as a matter of
state  law, he  characterized  the tort claim  as  "stem[ming]
from the alleged failure of AT&T to comply with its contrac-
tual relationship."  Tr. 2207.  In my opinion, however, the
jury's verdict on respondent's tort claim is supported by evi-
dence that went well beyond,  and  differed in nature from,
the contract claim.
If petitioner, in an effort to appropriate respondent's cus-
tomers,  had  included with  each  bill  sent to  a  customer  a
statement expressly characterizing respondent as an unethi-
cal, profit-hungry middleman, I would think it clear that the
filed rate  doctrine  would not  constitute a defense  to  such
tortious conduct.  The evidence in the record indicates that
a similar result was obtained by mailing bills to the custom-
ers that disclosed the markup that respondent obtained  on
their calls.
Respondent's tort claim was also premised in part on testi-
mony that AT&T used a telemarketer to contact respondent's
customers and, without their authorization, convert them to
AT&T's own long-distance  service.  Id., at 557-558.  In re-
jecting  AT&T's  motion for  a directed  verdict  on  the tort
claim, the Magistrate recognized that this practice of "slam-
ming" customers could "easily be a case of intentional inter-
ference" that would not necessarily also constitute breach of
contract.  Id., at 2166-2167.  Slamming was clearly a part
of the case presented in the District Court.  There was an

