

224  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN  & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
illogical to condemn  the price  cut: The  antitrust laws  then
would be an obstacle to the chain of events most conducive
to a breakdown of oligopoly pricing and the onset of competi-
tion.  Even if the ultimate  effect of the cut is to induce or
reestablish  supracompetitive  pricing,  discouraging  a  price
cut and  forcing firms  to  maintain supracompetitive  prices,
thus depriving consumers  of the benefits of lower prices in
the interim, does not constitute sound antitrust policy.  Cf.
Areeda  & Hovenkamp  714.2d,  714.2f; Areeda  & Turner,
Predatory Pricing and Related Practices under Section 2 of
the  Sherman  Act,  88  Harv.  L.  Rev.  697,  708-709  (1975);
Posner,  Antitrust  Law:  An  Economic  Perspective,  at  195,
n. 39.
The  second  prerequisite  to  holding  a  competitor  liable
under the antitrust laws for charging low prices is a demon-
stration that the competitor  had a reasonable  prospect, or,
under  ยง 2  of the Sherman  Act, a  dangerous  probability, of
recouping its investment in below-cost prices.  See Matsu-
shita, supra, at 589; Cargill, supra, at 119, n. 15.  "For the
investment to be rational, the [predator] must have a reason-
able expectation of recovering, in the form of later monopoly
profits, more than the losses suffered."  Matsushita, supra,
at 588-589.  Recoupment is the ultimate object of an unlaw-
ful  predatory  pricing  scheme;  it is  the means  by which  a
predator profits from predation.  Without it, predatory pric-
ing produces lower aggregate prices in the market, and con-
sumer welfare  is enhanced.  Although  unsuccessful  preda-
tory  pricing  may  encourage  some  inefficient  substitution
toward  the product  being sold at less than  its cost, unsuc-
cessful predation is in general a boon to consumers.
That below-cost pricing  may impose painful  losses on its
target is of no moment to the antitrust laws if competition is
not  injured:  It is  axiomatic  that  the  antitrust  laws  were
passed for "the protection of competition, not competitors."
Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U. S.  294, 320  (1962).
Earlier this  Term, we held in the Sherman  Act ยง 2 context

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
that it was not enough to inquire "whether the defendant has
engaged in 'unfair' or 'predatory' tactics"; rather, we insisted
that the plaintiff prove  "a dangerous  probability that  [the
defendant]  would  monopolize  a particular  market."  Spec-
trum Sports, 506 U. S.,  at 459.  Even an act of pure malice
by one business competitor against another does not, without
more, state a  claim under the federal  antitrust laws; those
laws  do  not  create  a  federal  law of unfair  competition  or
"purport to afford  remedies  for  all torts  committed  by or
against persons engaged in interstate commerce."  Hunt v.
Crumboch, 325 U. S. 821, 826 (1945).
For recoupment to occur, below-cost pricing must be capa-
ble, as a threshold matter, of producing the intended effects
on the firm's rivals, whether driving them from the market,
or, as was alleged to be the goal here, causing them to raise
their prices to supracompetitive  levels  within a disciplined
oligopoly.  This requires an understanding of the extent and
duration  of  the  alleged  predation,  the  relative  financial
strength of the predator and  its intended  victim, and  their
respective  incentives  and  will.  See  3  Areeda  & Turner
711b.  The inquiry is whether, given the aggregate  losses
caused by the below-cost pricing, the intended target would
likely succumb.
If  circumstances  indicate  that  below-cost  pricing  could
likely produce its intended effect on the target, there is still
the further question whether it would likely injure competi-
tion in the relevant market.  The plaintiff must demonstrate
that there is a likelihood that the predatory scheme alleged
would cause  a rise in prices  above a competitive level  that
would be sufficient to compensate for the amounts expended
on the predation, including the time value of the money in-
vested in it.  As we have observed on a prior occasion, "[i]n
order to recoup their losses, [predators] must obtain enough
market power to set higher than competitive prices, and then
must  sustain  those  prices  long  enough  to earn  in  excess

NEW PAGE

226  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
profits  what  they  earlier  gave  up  in  below-cost  prices."
Matsushita, 475 U. S., at 590-591.
Evidence  of below-cost  pricing  is  not alone sufficient  to
permit an  inference  of probable  recoupment  and  injury to
competition.  Determining  whether  recoupment  of preda-
tory losses  is likely requires an estimate  of the cost of the
alleged  predation  and  a  close  analysis  of both the scheme
alleged by the plaintiff and the structure and  conditions  of
the relevant market.  Cf., e. g., Elzinga  & Mills, Testing for
Predation: Is Recoupment  Feasible?, 34 Antitrust Bull. 869
(1989)  (constructing  one  possible  model  for  evaluating  re-
coupment).  If market circumstances or deficiencies in proof
would  bar a reasonable jury from finding that the scheme
alleged  would  likely  result  in  sustained  supracompetitive
pricing,  the  plaintiff's  case  has  failed.  In  certain  situa-
tions-for example, where the market is highly diffuse  and
competitive, or where  new entry is easy, or the defendant
lacks adequate excess capacity to absorb the market shares
of his  rivals  and  cannot  quickly  create  or  purchase  new
capacity-summary  disposition  of the  case  is  appropriate.
See, e. g., Cargill, 479 U. S., at 119-120, n. 15.
These prerequisites  to recovery are not easy to establish,
but they are not artificial obstacles to recovery; rather, they
are essential components of real market injury.  As we have
said in the Sherman Act context, "predatory pricing schemes
are rarely  tried, and  even more  rarely successful,"  Matsu-
shita, supra, at 589, and the costs of an erroneous  finding of
liability are  high.  "[T]he  mechanism  by which  a firm  en-
gages  in  predatory  pricing-lowering  prices-is  the  same
mechanism by which a firm stimulates competition; because
'cutting prices in order to increase business often is the very
essence  of competition  ... [;]  mistaken  inferences  ...  are
especially costly, because they chill the very conduct the an-
titrust laws  are  designed  to protect."'  Cargill, supra, at
122, n. 17 (quoting Matsushita, supra, at 594).  It would be
ironic indeed  if the standards for predatory pricing liability

