

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  913 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
formly  acknowledged  that  [resale  price  maintenance]  and 
other vertical restraints lead to higher consumer prices”). 
On  the  other  hand,  those  favoring  resale  price  mainte­
nance have long argued that resale price maintenance agree­
ments can provide important consumer beneﬁts.  The ma­
jority lists two: First, such agreements can facilitate new 
entry.  Ante, at 891.  For example, a newly entering pro­
ducer  wishing  to  build  a  product  name  might  be  able  to 
convince dealers to help it do so—if, but only if, the pro­
ducer can assure those dealers that they will later recoup 
their investment.  Without resale price maintenance, late­
entering dealers might take advantage of the earlier invest­
ment and, through price competition, drive prices down to 
the point where the early dealers cannot recover what they 
spent.  By assuring the initial dealers that such later price 
competition will not occur, resale price maintenance can en­
courage  them  to  carry  the  new  product,  thereby  helping 
the  new  producer  succeed.  See  8  Areeda  &  Hovenkamp 
¶¶ 1617a, 1631b, at 193–196, 308.  The result might be in­
creased  competition  at  the  producer  level,  i. e.,  greater 
inter-brand competition, that brings with it net consumer 
beneﬁts. 
Second,  without  resale  price  maintenance  a  producer 
might ﬁnd its efforts to sell a product undermined by what 
resale price maintenance advocates call “free riding.”  Ante, 
at 890–891.  Suppose a producer concludes that it can suc­
ceed only if dealers provide certain services, say, product 
demonstrations, high quality shops, advertising that creates 
a certain product image, and so forth.  Without resale price 
maintenance, some dealers might take a “free ride” on the 
investment  that  others  make  in  providing  those  services. 
Such a dealer would save money by not paying for those 
services and could consequently cut its own price and in­
crease its own sales.  Under these circumstances, dealers 
might prove unwilling to invest in the provision of necessary 
services.  See, e. g., 8 Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶¶ 1611–1613, 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
914  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
1631c, at 126–165, 309–313; R. Posner, Antitrust Law 172– 
173 (2d ed. 2001); R. Bork, The Antitrust Paradox 290–291 
(1978) (hereinafter Bork); Easterbrook 146–149. 
Moreover, where a producer and not a group of dealers 
seeks a resale price maintenance agreement, there is a spe­
cial reason to believe some such beneﬁts exist.  That is be­
cause, other things being equal, producers should want to 
encourage price competition among their dealers.  By doing 
so they will often increase proﬁts by selling more of their 
product.  See Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 56, n. 24; Bork 290. 
And  that  is  so,  even  if  the  producer  possesses  sufﬁcient 
market  power  to  earn  a  supernormal  proﬁt.  That  is  to 
say, other things being equal, the producer will beneﬁt by 
charging his dealers a competitive (or even a higher-than­
competitive) wholesale price while encouraging price compe­
tition among them.  Hence, if the producer is the moving 
force, the producer must have some special reason for want­
ing resale price maintenance; and in the absence of, say, con­
centrated producer markets (where that special reason might 
consist of a desire to stabilize wholesale prices), that special 
reason may well reﬂect the special circumstances just de­
scribed:  new  entry,  “free  riding,”  or  variations  on  those 
themes. 
The upshot is, as many economists suggest, sometimes re­
sale price maintenance can prove harmful; sometimes it can 
bring beneﬁts.  See, e. g., Brief for Economists as Amici Cu­
riae 16; 8 Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶¶ 1631–1632, at 306–328; 
Pitofsky 1495; Scherer 706–707.  But before concluding that 
courts should consequently apply a rule of reason, I would 
ask such questions as, how often are harms or beneﬁts likely 
to occur?  How easy is it to separate the beneﬁcial sheep 
from the antitrust goats? 
Economic discussion, such as the studies the Court relies 
upon, can help provide answers to these questions, and in 
doing so, economics can, and should, inform antitrust law. 
But antitrust law cannot, and should not, precisely replicate 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  915 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
economists’ (sometimes conﬂicting) views.  That is because 
law, unlike economics, is an administrative system the effects 
of which depend upon the content of rules and precedents 
only as they are applied by judges and juries in courts and 
by lawyers advising their clients.  And that fact means that 
courts will often bring their own administrative judgment 
to bear, sometimes applying rules of per se unlawfulness to 
business  practices  even  when  those  practices  sometimes 
produce beneﬁts.  See, e. g., F. Scherer & D. Ross, Industrial 
Market Structure and Economic Performance 335–339 (3d 
ed. 1990) (hereinafter Scherer & Ross) (describing some cir­
cumstances  under  which  price-ﬁxing agreements  could  be 
more beneﬁcial than “unfettered competition,” but also not­
ing potential costs of moving from a per se ban to a rule of 
reasonableness assessment of such agreements). 
I have already described studies and analyses that suggest 
(though they cannot prove) that resale price maintenance can 
cause harms with some regularity—and certainly when deal­
ers are the driving force.  But what about beneﬁts?  How 
often,  for  example,  will  the  beneﬁts  to  which  the  Court 
points occur in practice?  I can ﬁnd no economic consensus 
on this point.  There is a consensus in the literature that 
“free  riding”  takes  place.  But  “free  riding”  often  takes 
place  in  the  economy  without  any  legal  effort  to  stop  it. 
Many visitors to California take free rides on the Paciﬁc 
Coast Highway.  We all beneﬁt freely from ideas, such as 
that of creating the ﬁrst supermarket.  Dealers often take a 
“free ride” on investments that others have made in building 
a product’s name and reputation.  The question is how often 
the “free riding” problem is serious enough signiﬁcantly to 
deter dealer investment. 
To be more speciﬁc, one can easily imagine a dealer who 
refuses to provide important presale services, say, a detailed 
explanation of how a product works (or who fails to provide 
a proper atmosphere in which to sell expensive perfume or 
alligator billfolds), lest customers use that “free” service (or 

