

410  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS V. TRINKO, LLP
Opinion of the Court
way.  In Aspen Skiing, what the defendant refused  to pro-
vide to its competitor was a product  that it already sold at
retail-to  oversimplify  slightly, lift  tickets  representing  a
bundle of services  to skiers.  Similarly, in Otter Tail Power
Co. v. United States, 410 U. S. 366 (1973),  another case relied
upon by respondent, the defendant was already in the busi-
ness  of  providing  a  service  to  certain  customers  (power
transmission  over its network),  and refused  to provide  the
same  service  to certain  other  customers.  Id.,  at  370-371,
377-378.  In the present case, by contrast, the  services  al-
legedly withheld are not otherwise marketed or available to
the public.  The sharing obligation imposed by the 1996 Act
created  "something brand new"--"the wholesale market for
leasing network elements."  Verizon Communications Inc.
v. FCC, 535  U. S., at 528.  The unbundled  elements  offered
pursuant  to §251(c)(3)  exist only deep within the bowels of
Verizon; they are brought out on compulsion of the 1996 Act
and offered not to consumers but to rivals, and at consider-
able  expense  and  effort.  New systems  must  be  designed
and implemented  simply  to make  that access  possible-in-
deed, it is the failure of one of those systems that prompted
the present complaint.3
We conclude that Verizon's alleged  insufficient assistance
in the provision of service to rivals is not a recognized  anti-
trust claim under this Court's  existing refusal-to-deal  prec-
edents.  This  conclusion  would  be  unchanged  even  if  we
considered to be established law the "essential facilities" doc-
trine crafted by some lower courts, under which the Court
of Appeals concluded  respondent's allegations might state a
claim.  See generally  Areeda,  Essential Facilities:  An Epi-
3Respondent also relies upon United States v. Terminal Railroad Assn.
of St. Louis, 224 U. S. 383 (1912), and Associated Press v. United States,
326 U. S. 1 (1945).  These cases involved concerted action, which presents
greater anticompetitive  concerns and is amenable to a remedy that does
not require judicial estimation of free-market forces: simply requiring that
the outsider be granted nondiscriminatory admission to the club.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
thet in Need  of Limiting  Principles, 58 Antitrust  L. J. 841
(1989).  We  have  never  recognized  such  a  doctrine,  see
Aspen Skiing Co.,  472  U. S.,  at 611,  n. 44;  AT&T  Corp. v.
Iowa Utilities Bd., 525 U. S., at 428 (opinion of BREYER, J.),
and  we find no  need either  to  recognize  it or to  repudiate
it  here.  It suffices  for  present  purposes  to  note  that  the
indispensable  requirement  for invoking  the doctrine  is the
unavailability of access to the "essential facilities"; where ac-
cess exists, the doctrine serves no purpose.  Thus, it is said
that "essential facility claims  should ...  be denied where a
state or federal agency has effective power to compel sharing
and to regulate its scope  and terms."  P. Areeda  & H. Ho-
venkamp,  Antitrust  Law, p.  150,  773e  (2003  Supp.).  Re-
spondent believes that the existence of sharing duties under
the 1996 Act supports its case.  We think the opposite:  The
1996  Act's extensive  provision for access  makes it unneces-
sary to impose a judicial  doctrine of forced access.  To the
extent respondent's "essential facilities" argument is distinct
from its general § 2 argument, we reject it.
IV
Finally, we do not believe that traditional antitrust princi-
ples justify adding the present case  to the few existing ex-
ceptions  from the proposition  that  there is  no  duty to aid
competitors.  Antitrust analysis must always be attuned to
the particular  structure  and  circumstances  of the  industry
at issue.  Part of that attention  to economic context  is an
awareness  of the  significance  of regulation.  As  we  have
noted, "careful account must be taken of the pervasive  fed-
eral  and  state  regulation  characteristic  of the  industry."
United States v. Citizens & Southern Nat. Bank, 422 U. S.
86, 91 (1975);  see also IA P. Areeda & H. Hovenkamp, Anti-
trust Law, p. 12,  240c3 (2d ed. 2000).  "[Alntitrust analysis
must  sensitively  recognize  and  reflect  the  distinctive  eco-
nomic  and legal setting  of the regulated industry  to which
it applies."  Concord v. Boston Edison Co.,  915  F. 2d  17,

NEW PAGE

412  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS V. TRINKO,  LLP
Opinion of the Court
22  (CA1  1990)  (Breyer,  C.  J.)  (internal  quotation  marks
omitted).
One  factor of particular importance is  the existence  of a
regulatory structure designed to deter and remedy anticom-
petitive  harm.  Where  such  a  structure  exists,  the  addi-
tional benefit to competition provided  by antitrust enforce-
ment  will  tend  to  be  small,  and  it  will  be  less  plausible
that the antitrust laws contemplate such additional scrutiny.
Where, by contrast, "[t]here  is nothing built into the regula-
tory scheme which performs the antitrust function," Silver
v. New  York  Stock  Exchange, 373 U. S. 341,  358 (1963),  the
benefits  of antitrust are  worth  its  sometimes  considerable
disadvantages.  Just  as  regulatory  context  may  in  other
cases serve as a basis for implied immunity, see, e. g.,  United
States v. National Assn.  of Securities Dealers, Inc.,  422
U. S., at 730-735, it may also be a consideration in deciding
whether to recognize an expansion of the contours of § 2.
The regulatory  framework  that  exists in  this  case dem-
onstrates how, in certain  circumstances,  "regulation  signif-
icantly  diminishes  the likelihood of major  antitrust harm."
Concord v. Boston Edison Co., supra, at 25.  Consider, for
example, the statutory restrictions upon Verizon's entry into
the  potentially  lucrative  market  for  long-distance  service.
To be allowed to enter the long-distance  market in the first
place, an incumbent  LEC  must be on  good behavior  in its
local market.  Authorization by the FCC requires state-by-
state  satisfaction  of § 271's  competitive  checklist,  which  as
we have  noted includes  the nondiscriminatory  provision  of
access  to UNEs.  Section 271  applications  to provide long-
distance  service  have  now  been  approved  for  incumbent
LECs in 47 States and the District of Columbia.  See FCC
Authorizes SBC to Provide Long Distance Service in Illinois,
Indiana, Ohio and Wisconsin (Oct. 15, 2003), http://hraunfoss.
fcc.gov/edocs_  public/attachmatch/DOC-239978Al.pdf.
The FCC's § 271 authorization order for Verizon to provide
long-distance service in New York discussed at great length
Verizon's commitments to provide access to UNEs, including

