OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus
STATE  OIL  CO. v. KHAN  ET  AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 96-871.  Argued October 7, 1997-Decided November 4, 1997
Respondents' agreement to lease and operate a gas station obligated them
to buy gasoline from petitioner State Oil Company at a price equal to a
suggested retail price set by State Oil, less a specified profit margin;
required them to rebate any excess to State Oil if they charged custom-
ers more than the suggested price; and provided that any decrease due
to sales below the suggested price would reduce their margin.  After
they fell behind in their lease payments and State Oil commenced evic-
tion proceedings, respondents brought this suit in federal court, alleging
in part that, by preventing them from raising or lowering retail gas
prices, State Oil had violated ยง 1 of the Sherman Act.  The District
Court entered summary judgment for State Oil on this claim, but the
Seventh Circuit reversed on the basis of Albrecht v. Herald Co., 390
U. S. 145, 152-154, in which this Court held that vertical maximum price
fixing is a per se antitrust violation.  Although the Court of Appeals
characterized Albrecht as "unsound  when decided"  and "inconsistent
with later decisions," it felt constrained to follow that decision.
Held: Albrecht is overruled.  Pp. 10-22.
(a) Although most antitrust claims are analyzed under a "rule of rea-
son," under which the court reviews a number of relevant factors, see,
e. g., Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Soc., 457 U. S. 332, 342-343,
some types of restraints on trade have such predictable and pernicious
anticompetitive  effect,  and such  limited  potential for procompetitive
benefit, that they are deemed unlawful per se, see, e. g., Northern Pacific
R. Co. v. United States, 356 U. S. 1, 5.  A review of this Court's perti-
nent decisions is relevant in assessing the continuing validity of the
Albrecht per se rule.  See, e. g., Kiefer-Stewart Co. v. Joseph E. Sea-
gram & Sons, Inc., 340 U. S.2 11, 213 (maximum resale price fixing ille-
gal per se); United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & Co., 388 U. S. 365, 379-
380 (vertical nonprice restrictions illegal per se); Continental T V, Inc.
v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 47-49, 58-59 (overruling Schwinn).
A number of this Court's later decisions have hinted that Albrecht's
analytical underpinnings  were  substantially weakened  by  GTE Syl-
vania-see, e. g., Maricopa County, supra, at 348, n. 18; 324 Liquor
Corp. v. Duffy, 479 U.S. 335, 341-342; Atlantic Richfield Co. v.  USA
Petroleum Co., 495 U. S.3 28, 335, n. 5, 343, n. 13-and there is a consid-

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Syllabus
erable body of scholarship discussing the procompetitive effects of verti-
cal maximum price fixing.  Pp. 10-15.
(b) Informed by the foregoing decisions and scholarship, and guided
by the general view that the antitrust laws' primary purpose is to pro-
tect interbrand  competition, see, e. g.,  Business Electronics Corp. v.
Sharp Electronics Corp., 485 U. S. 717, 726, and that condemnation of
practices resulting in lower consumer prices is disfavored, Matsushita
Elec. Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S. 574,594, this Court
finds it difficult to maintain that vertically imposed maximum  prices
could harm consumers or competition to the extent necessary to justify
their per se invalidation.  Albrecht's theoretical justifications for its per
se rule-that vertical maximum price fixing could interfere with dealer
freedom, restrict dealers' ability to offer consumers essential or desired
services,  channel  distribution  through large  or specially  advantaged
dealers,  or disguise  minimum price fixing schemes-have been abun-
dantly  criticized  and  can  be  appropriately  recognized  and  punished
under the rule of reason.  Not only are they less serious than the Al-
brecht Court imagined, but other courts and antitrust scholars  have
noted that the per se rule could in fact exacerbate problems related to
the unrestrained exercise of market power by monopolist-dealers.  For
these reasons, and because Albrecht is irrelevant to ongoing Sherman
Act enforcement, see Copperweld Corp.v . Independence Tube Corp., 467
U. S.  752, 777, and n. 25, and there are apparently no cases in which
enforcement efforts have been directed solely against the conduct con-
demned in Albrecht, there is insufficient economic justification for the
per se rule.  Respondents' arguments in favor of the rule-that its elim-
ination should require persuasive, expert testimony establishing that it
has distorted the market, and that its retention is compelled by Toolson
v. New York Yankees, Inc., 346 U. S. 356, and Flood v. Kuhn, 407 U. S.
258-are unavailing.  Pp. 15-19.
(c) Albrecht does not deserve continuing respect under the doctrine
of stare decisis.  Stare decisis is not an inexorable command, particu-
larly in the area of antitrust law, where there is a competing interest in
recognizing and adapting to changed circumstances  and the lessons of
accumulated experience.  See, e. g., National Soc. of ProfessionalE  n-
gineers v. United States, 435 U.S. 679, 688.  Accordingly, this Court has
reconsidered its decisions construing the Sherman Act where, as here,
the theoretical underpinnings of those decisions are called into serious
question.  See, e. g., GTE Sylvania, supra.  Because Albrecht has been
widely criticized  since its inception, and the views underlying it have
been eroded by this Court's precedent, there is not much of that decision
to salvage.  See, e. g.,  Neal v.  United States, 516  U. S.  284, 295.  In

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Syllabus
overruling Albrecht, the Court does not hold that all vertical maximum
price fixing is per se lawful, but simply that it should be evaluated under
the rule  of reason, which  can effectively identify those situations in
which it amounts to anticompetitive  conduct.  The question  whether
respondents  are entitled  to recover damages in light of this Court's
overruling of Albrecht should be reviewed by the Court of Appeals in
the first instance.  Pp. 20-22.
93 F. 3d 1358, vacated and remanded.
O'CoNNoR, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.
John Baumgartnera rgued the cause for petitioner.  With
him on the briefs was Paul Kalinich.
Acting  Assistant Attorney  General Klein argued  the
cause  for the United  States  et al. as amici curiae urging
reversal.  With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor Gen-
eral Dellinger, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, Deputy
Assistant Attorney General Melamed, Edward C. DuMont,
Catherine G. O'Sullivan, and David Seidman.
Anthony S. DiVincenzo argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.
Pamela Jones Harbour,D  eputy Attorney General of New
York, argued the cause for the state parties as amici curiae
urging affirmance.  With her on  the brief were Dennis C.
Vacco, Attorney General of New York, Barbara Gott Billet,
Solicitor General, and Stephen D. Houck, Robert L. Hubbard,
Darrell M. Joseph, and  John A. Ioannou, Assistant Attor-
neys General, Bruce M. Botelho, Attorney General of Alaska,
and Daveed A. Schwartz, Assistant Attorney General, Grant
Woods, Attorney General  of Arizona,  Winston Bryant, At-
torney General of Arkansas, and J Jordan Abbott, Assistant
Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal, Attorney General of
Connecticut, M. Jane Brady, Attorney General of Delaware,
Robert A  Butterworth, Attorney  General  of Florida,  and
PatriciaA . Conners, Assistant Attorney General, Calvin E.
Halloway, Sr., Attorney General of Guam, Margery S. Bron-
ster, Attorney General  of Hawaii, Alan G. Lance, Attorney

