

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
324  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
essential to competition and innovation on the buy side of 
the market.4 
Brooke Group also noted that a failed predatory-pricing 
scheme may beneﬁt consumers.  509 U. S., at 224.  The po­
tential beneﬁt results from the difﬁculty an aspiring predator 
faces in recouping losses suffered from below-cost pricing. 
Without successful recoupment, “predatory pricing produces 
lower aggregate prices in the market, and consumer welfare 
is enhanced.”  Ibid.  Failed predatory-bidding schemes can 
also, but will not necessarily, beneﬁt consumers.  See Salop 
677–678.  In the ﬁrst stage of a predatory-bidding scheme, 
the predator’s high bidding will likely lead to its acquisition 
of  more  inputs.  Usually,  the  acquisition  of  more  inputs 
leads to the manufacture of more outputs.  And increases in 
output generally result in lower prices to consumers.5  Id., 
at 677; Blair & Harrison, supra, at 66–67.  Thus, a failed 
predatory-bidding scheme can be a “boon to consumers” in 
the same way that we considered a predatory-pricing scheme 
to be.  See Brooke Group, supra, at 224. 
In addition, predatory bidding presents less of a direct 
threat of consumer harm than predatory pricing.  A 
predatory-pricing  scheme  ultimately  achieves  success  by 
charging higher prices to consumers.  By contrast, a 
predatory-bidding scheme could succeed with little or no ef­
fect on consumer prices because a predatory bidder does not 
necessarily rely on raising prices in the output market to 
recoup its losses.  Salop 676.  Even if output prices remain 
constant, a predatory bidder can use its power as the pre­
4 Higher prices for inputs obviously beneﬁt existing sellers of inputs and 
encourage new ﬁrms to enter the market for input sales as well. 
5 Consumer beneﬁt does not necessarily result at the ﬁrst stage because 
the predator might not use its excess inputs to manufacture additional 
outputs.  It might instead destroy the excess inputs.  See Salop 677, 
n. 22.  Also, if the same ﬁrms compete in the input and output markets, 
any increase in outputs by the predator could be offset by decreases in 
outputs from the predator’s struggling competitors. 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  325 
Opinion of the Court 
dominant buyer of inputs to force down input prices and cap­
ture monopsony proﬁts.  Ibid. 
C 
The general theoretical similarities of monopoly and mo­
nopsony combined with the theoretical and practical similari­
ties of predatory pricing and predatory bidding convince us 
that  our  two-pronged  Brooke  Group test  should  apply  to 
predatory-bidding claims. 
The ﬁrst prong of Brooke Group’s test requires little adap­
tation for the predatory-bidding context.  A plaintiff must 
prove that the alleged predatory bidding led to below-cost 
pricing of the predator’s outputs.  That is, the predator’s 
bidding on the buy side must have caused the cost of the 
relevant output to rise above the revenues generated in the 
sale of those outputs.  As with predatory pricing, the exclu­
sionary  effect  of  higher  bidding  that  does  not  result  in 
below-cost output pricing “is beyond the practical ability of 
a  judicial  tribunal  to  control  without  courting  intolerable 
risks  of  chilling  legitimate”  procompetitive  conduct.  509 
U. S., at 223.  Given the multitude of procompetitive ends 
served by higher bidding for inputs, the risk of chilling pro­
competitive behavior with too lax a liability standard is as 
serious here as it was in Brooke Group.  Consequently, only 
higher bidding that leads to below-cost pricing in the rele­
vant output market will sufﬁce as a basis for liability for 
predatory bidding. 
A predatory-bidding plaintiff also must prove that the de­
fendant has a dangerous probability of recouping the losses 
incurred in bidding up input prices through the exercise of 
monopsony  power.  Absent  proof  of  likely  recoupment,  a 
strategy of predatory bidding makes no economic sense be­
cause it would involve short-term losses with no likelihood 
of offsetting long-term gains.  Cf. id., at 224 (citing Matsu­
shita,  supra,  at  588–589).  As  with  predatory  pricing, 
making  a  showing  on  the  recoupment  prong  will  require 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
326  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
“a close analysis of both the scheme alleged by the plaintiff 
and the structure and conditions of the relevant market.” 
Brooke Group, supra, at 226. 
Ross-Simmons has conceded that it has not satisﬁed the 
Brooke  Group standard.  Brief  for  Respondent  49; Tr.  of 
Oral Arg. 49.  Therefore, its predatory-bidding theory of lia­
bility cannot support the jury’s verdict. 
V 
For these reasons, we vacate the judgment of the Court of 
Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings con­
sistent with this opinion. 
It is so ordered. 

