OCTOBER TERM, 1991
Syllabus
NATIONAL  RAILROAD  PASSENGER  CORPORATION
ET  AL.  v. BOSTON  & MAINE  CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS  FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
No. 90-1419.  Argued January 13, 1992-Decided March 25, 1992*
The Rail Passenger Service Act of 1970  (RPSA) created petitioner Na-
tional Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak), a private corporation,
to provide intercity and commuter rail passenger service.  The Act per-
mits Amtrak to enter into "trackage rights" agreements to use tracks
owned and used by freight railroads, 45 U. S. C. § 562(a), and allows Am-
trak to ask petitioner Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) to con-
demn railroad property "required for intercity rail passenger service" if
Amtrak and the railroad  cannot agree upon sale terms, § 562(d).  For
purposes of the ICC's condemnation order, Amtrak's "need for the prop-
erty" "shall be  deemed to be established"  unless the conveyance  will
significantly impair the railroad's ability to carry out its obligations as
a common  carrier and unless Amtrak's  obligations  can adequately  be
met by  the acquisition  of alternative property.  Ibid.  Amtrak had a
"trackage rights" agreement with respondent Boston and Maine Corpo-
ration (B&M)  to operate its "Montrealer"  train between Washington,
D. C., and Montreal.  Amtrak claims it was forced to discontinue this
service because of B&M's poor maintenance of its track segment.  Subse-
quently, Amtrak entered into an agreement with petitioner Central Ver-
mont Railroad (CV) which provided that, among other things, Amtrak
would acquire  the B&M  track and reconvey it to CV, and CV would
grant trackage  rights to Amtrak  and usage  rights to  B&M.  When
B&M  did not accept  Amtrak's  purchase  offer  for the  track, Amtrak
sought, and received, an ICC order compelling conveyance for just com-
pensation.  The ICC found, among other things, that § 562(d) created a
statutory presumption of Amtrak's need for the track, which B&M failed
to rebut.  The Court of Appeals remanded the case for further proceed-
ings, concluding that, because Amtrak did not intend to retain the track,
it needed only its use, not its ownership.  While petitions for rehearing
were pending, §562(d)  was amended to allow Amtrak to subsequently
convey title to acquired property to a third party if the ICC finds the
reconveyance  furthers  the RPSA's  purposes.  Nonetheless,  the court
*Together with No. 90-1769, Interstate Commerce Commission et al. v.
Boston & Maine Corp. et al., also on certiorari to the same court.

NEW PAGE

408  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Syllabus
denied rehearing, holding that the condemnation was not valid because
the property was not "required for intercity rail passenger service."
Held.
1. The ICC's decision was based on a reasonable interpretation and
application of § 562(d).  Pp. 417-424.
(a) The ICC's interpretation of the word "required" is due defer-
ence as a reasonable interpretation of an ambiguous term in a statute
that the ICC administers.  See, e. g.,  Chevron U S. A  Inc. v. Natural
Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837.  The existence of alter-
native dictionary  definitions for "required" indicates  that the  statute
is  open  to  interpretation.  The  ICC's  interpretation  gives  effect  to
§ 562(d)'s  presumption  of need.  In  contrast,  the  Court  of Appeals'
view-that "required"  establishes  a separate condition  that Amtrak's
condemnation authority is limited to property that is indispensable to
its operations-is in clear tension with the presumption.  In addition,
§ 562(d)'s amendment confirms the ICC's definition, while the Court of
Appeals' strict rule would make the amendment superfluous by barring
condemnation whenever Amtrak's purpose is to reconvey property.
Pp. 417-420.
(b) The ICC was not required  to make specific findings regarding
Amtrak's  actual  need for the condemnation  because its oversight re-
sponsibility is limited to ensuring that condemned property will be used
in Amtrak's rail operations.  The statute's structure and its presump-
tion of need create a strong inference that it authorizes Amtrak to make
a reasonable  business judgment that condemnation is advisable, unless
the statutory presumption is rebutted.  Pp. 420-421.
(c) B&M's several arguments against the ICC's interpretation are
rejected.  The eminent domain power has been given to the ICC, not
a private entity, and  thus  is not limited  as suggested  by cases  such
as United States v. Carmack, 329 U. S. 230, 243, n. 13.  Furthermore,
these  cases turn on the  need for  deference  to  the ICC, not  to Am-
trak.  The  ICC's  interpretation  of § 562(d)  also  did  not  violate  the
"public  use" requirement  of the Fifth Amendment's  Takings Clause,
since the ICC's determination that the condemnation will serve a pub-
lic  purpose  by  facilitating  Amtrak's  rail  service  was not  irrational.
See, e. g., Hawaii Housing Authority v. Midkiff, 467 U. S. 229, 240-241.
Moreover, the ICC did not err in concluding that the statutory prerequi-
site that the parties were "unable  to agree  upon terms for the sale"
mandated nothing more  than a factual determination that they would
be unable to reach agreement through further negotiations.  Nor did it
make inadequate factual findings in concluding that B&M had not rebut-
ted the presumption of need.  The ICC was not unreasonable in consid-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
ering the effect of trackage rights and the just compensation award in
assessing whether  the  conveyance  would  significantly  impair  B&M's
ability to carry out its obligations, or in interpreting the availability-
of-alternative-property  provision  as  referring  only  to  whether  Am-
trak could  provide service using an alternative route, not whether a
lesser interest in property would suffice to meet Amtrak's needs.
Pp. 421-424.
2. The  parties' challenges to the ICC's just compensation finding as
well as certain other issues should be resolved on remand.  P. 424.
286 U. S. App. D. C. 1, 911 F. 2d 743, reversed and remanded.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and STEVENS, O'CONNOR, SCALIA, and SOUTER, JJ., joined.  WHITE,
J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which BLACKMUN and THOMAS, JJ., joined,
post, p. 424.
Acting  Solicitor General Roberts argued  the  cause  for
petitioners  in  both  cases.  With  him  on  the  briefs  for
petitioners in  No.  90-1769  were Deputy Solicitor General
Wallace, Michael R.  Dreeben, Robert S.  Burk,  Henri F
Rush, and Charles A. Stark.  Robert P. vom Eigen, Charles
I. Appler, Theodore A. Howard, Richard F Riley, Jr., Louis
R. Cohen, Stephen C. Rogers, and  Frederick C. Ohly filed
briefs for petitioners in No. 90-1419.
Irwin Go ldbloom argued the cause for respondents in both
cases and filed a brief for respondent Boston  & Maine  Cor-
poration.  Jeffrey  L.  Amestoy,  Attorney  General  of  Ver-
mont, John K. Dunleavy, Assistant Attorney General,  Rex
E. Lee, G. Paul Moates, Ronald S. Flagg, Robert J  Baum,
and Michael F McBride filed a brief for respondents  State
of Vermont et al.t
JUSTICE KENNEDY  delivered the opinion of the Court.
The  Interstate  Commerce  Commission  (ICC or Commis-
sion) issued an order, upon the request of petitioner National
tLaurence Z. Shiekman, Paul A  Cunningham, Robert M. Jenkins III,
and Bruce B. Wilson filed a brief for Concerned Railroads as amicus cu-
riae urging affirmance.

