

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
trict Court  dismissed  the antitrust  claims,  concluding  that
the  Postal Service  is not subject  to liability  under federal
antitrust law.  The Court of Appeals reversed.  It held that
the Postal Service can be liable but that it has a limited im-
munity from antitrust liability for conduct undertaken at the
command  of Congress.  302 F. 3d 985, 993 (CA9 2002).  We
granted  certiorari  to  consider  the  question  whether  the
United  States  Postal  Service  is  a  "person"  amenable  to
suit under the controlling antitrust  statute.  538 U. S.  1056
(2003).  We hold it is not subject to antitrust liability, and
we reverse.
After the Revolution,  both the Articles  of Confederation
and the Constitution explicitly empowered the National Gov-
ernment to provide and regulate postal services.  Article of
Confederation IX; U. S. Const., Art. I, § 8.  The importance
of the  enterprise  was  prefigured  by  the Continental  Con-
gress' appointment of Benjamin Franklin to be the first Post-
master General, on July 26,  1775.  G. Cullinan, The United
States Postal Service 26 (1973)  (hereinafter  Cullinan).
From those beginnings, the Postal Service has become "the
nation's  oldest  and  largest  public  business."  J. Tierney,
Postal Reorganization:  Managing  the Public's  Business  vii
(1981)  (hereinafter Tierney).
During its history since  Postmaster Franklin,  the postal
organization has been reorganized or restructured at various
times.  In the immediate period after ratification of the Con-
stitution, it was called the General Post Office and was sub-
ordinate to the Treasury Department.  Cullinan 35-36.  In
1825, its name changed from the General Post Office  to the
Post Office Department, an alteration accomplished by some-
what informal means when Postmaster Joseph McLean  sim-
ply changed  the  title  on  official  letterhead.  McLean  also
began  the practice  of reporting  directly  to  the  President
rather than to the Secretary of the Treasury.  Id., at 50-51.
(McLean  was  a popular  Postmaster  who served  from  1823
until  1829,  when  the  incoming  President  Andrew Jackson

NEW PAGE

740  POSTAL SERVICE v. FLAMINGO  INDUSTRIES  (USA)  LTD.
Opinion of the Court
solved his worries about McLean's independence  in matters
of  postal  governance,  especially  patronage,  by  appointing
him to this Court.  Id., at 52.)  In  1829, President Jackson
acknowledged  the enhanced  status of the Postmaster  Gen-
eral by making him a member of the Cabinet, though it was
not until  1872 that  Congress  formally  recognized  the  Post
Office  Department as an executive  department  of the Fed-
eral Government.  Id., at 36.  A more complete  account of
the origins and mission of the postal system is set forth in
Postal Service v.  Council of Greenburgh Civic Assns., 453
U. S. 114,  120-126 (1981).
Major change came with the Postal Reorganization  Act of
1970  (PRA), 39 U. S. C. § 101  et seq.  It was  adopted to in-
crease  the efficiency  of the Postal  Service  and  reduce  po-
litical influences  on its operations.  Tierney  1-26;  Cullinan
5-10.  The  PRA  renames  the  Post Office  Department  the
United States Postal Service and removes it from the Cabi-
net to make it "an independent establishment of the execu-
tive branch  of the Government  of the  United  States."  39
U. S. C. § 201.  Superintendence over the new Postal Service
is the responsibility  of a Board  of Governors, consisting  of
11  members.  § 202.  Nine governors are  appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Senate and are
removable only for cause.  Ibid.  The other two governors
are the  Postmaster General,  who  also  serves  as  the  chief
executive officer of the Postal Service, and who is appointed
by the other nine, and the Deputy Postmaster General, who
is appointed by the other nine together with the Postmaster
General.  Ibid.
The PRA creates a second independent establishment, the
Postal  Rate  Commission,  to  make  recommendations  on
postal rate changes.  § 3601.  The  Commission  advises the
Board of Governors on rates for all postal services, including
both letter carriage and parcel delivery.  § 3621.  Rates are
set by the Board  of Governors  based  on the  recommenda-
tions of the Commission, and those decisions are in certain

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
circumstances  subject to judicial review.  §§ 3625, 3628.  In
making  rate  recommendations  the  Commission  must  con-
sider  factors  including making  each  class  of mail  bear  the
costs attributable to it, and the effect of rate increases on the
mail-using public and on  competitors in the parcel  delivery
business.  § 3622(b).
Under the PRA, the Postal Service retains  its monopoly
over  the  carriage  of  letters,  and  the  power  to  authorize
postal inspectors to search for, seize, and forfeit mail matter
transported  in  violation  of the  monopoly.  See  §§601-606.
It  also retains the obligation  to provide  universal service to
all  parts of the  country.  §§ 101,  403.  The  Postal  Service
has the power of eminent domain, the power to make postal
regulations,  and  the  power  to  enter  international  postal
agreements  subject  to  the  supervision  of the  Secretary  of
State.  §§401,  407.  It has, in addition, powers to contract,
to  acquire  property,  and  to settle  claims.  §401.  As  this
brief summary  indicates, the Postal Service  has  significant
governmental  powers,  consistent  with its status  as  an  in-
dependent  establishment  of the  Executive Branch.  It  was
exempted  from  many,  though  not  all,  statutes  governing
federal agencies,  and specifically  subjected to some  others.
§§ 409-410.  With respect to antitrust liability, however, the
PRA neither exempts the Postal Service nor  subjects it to
liability by express mention.  It is silent on the point.
The PRA waives the immunity of the Postal Service from
suit by giving it the power "to sue and be sued in its official
name."  §401.  The  first  question  we  address  is  whether
that waiver suffices  by its own terms to subject the Postal
Service to liability under the Sherman  Act, ch. 647, 26 Stat.
209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1 et seq.  We begin with a dis-
cussion of our precedents bearing on the inquiry.
This  Court has held that when  Congress passes enabling
legislation  allowing  an agency  or other  entity  of the Fed-
eral  Government  to be  sued  the  waiver  should be given  a
liberal-that  is  to  say,  expansive-construction.  Federal

