

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
the provision  of OSS.  In  re Application by Bell Atlantic
New York for Authorization Under Section 271 of the Com-
munications Act To Provide In-Region, InterLATA Service
in  the  State of New  York,  15  FCC  Rcd.  3953,  3989-4077,
82-228 (1999) (Memorandum  Opinion and Order) (herein-
after In  re Application).  Those commitments are  enforce-
able by the FCC through continuing  oversight; a failure  to
meet an  authorization condition  can result in an order that
the deficiency be corrected, in the imposition of penalties, or
in  the  suspension  or  revocation  of long-distance  approval.
See  47 U. S. C. §271(d)(6)(A).  Verizon also subjected itself
to  oversight  by  the  PSC  under  a  so-called  "Performance
Assurance  Plan"  (PAP).  See  In  re New  York  Telephone
Co.,  197 P. U. R. 4th 266, 280-281  (N. Y. PSC, 1999)  (Order
Adopting the Amended PAP).  The PAP, which by its terms
became binding upon FCC approval, provides specific finan-
cial penalties in the event of Verizon's failure to achieve  de-
tailed performance requirements.  The FCC described Veri-
zon's having entered into a PAP as a significant factor in its
§ 271 authorization, because that provided "a strong financial
incentive  for  post-entry  compliance  with  the  section  271
checklist,"  and  prevented  "'backsliding."'  In  re Applica-
tion 3958-3959,  8, 12.
The regulatory response to the OSS failure complained of
in respondent's suit provides a vivid example of how the reg-
ulatory  regime operates.  When several competitive  LECs
complained  about  deficiencies  in  Verizon's  servicing  of or-
ders,  the  FCC  and  PSC  responded.  The  FCC  soon  con-
cluded that Verizon was in breach of its sharing duties under
§ 25 1(c), imposed a substantial fine, and set up sophisticated
measurements to gauge remediation, with weekly reporting
requirements  and  specific  penalties  for  failure.  The  PSC
found Verizon in violation of the PAP even earlier, and im-
posed additional financial penalties and  measurements with
daily reporting requirements.  In short, the regime was an
effective steward of the antitrust function.

NEW PAGE

414  VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW  OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
Opinion of the Court
Against the slight benefits  of antitrust intervention here,
we must  weigh  a realistic  assessment of its cost§.  Under
the best of circumstances,  applying the requirements  of § 2
"can be difficult" because "the means of illicit exclusion, like
the  means of legitimate  competition,  are myriad."  United
States v. Microsoft Corp., 253 F. 3d 34, 58 (CADC 2001)  (en
banc) (per curiam).  Mistaken inferences and the resulting
false condemnations  "are especially costly, because they chill
the very conduct the antitrust laws are designed to protect."
Matsushita Elec. Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475
U. S.  574,  594  (1986).  The  cost  of false  positives  counsels
against  an  undue  expansion  of  § 2  liability.  One  false-
positive risk is that an incumbent LEC's failure to provide a
service with sufficient alacrity might have nothing to do with
exclusion.  Allegations  of violations of § 251(c)(3)  duties are
difficult  for  antitrust  courts  to evaluate,  not only  because
they are highly technical, but also because they are likely to
be  extremely  numerous,  given  the incessant,  complex, .and
constantly  changing  interaction  of competitive  and  incum-
bent  LECs implementing  the  sharing  and  interconnection
obligations.  Amici States have filed  a brief asserting that
competitive LECs are threatened with "death by a thousand
cuts," Brief for New York et al. as Amici Curiae 10 (internal
quotation marks omitted)-the identification of which would
surely  be  a daunting task for a  generalist  antitrust  court.
Judicial oversight under the Sherman  Act would seem des-
tined to distort investment  and  lead to  a new layer of in-
terminable  litigation,  atop  the  variety  of litigation  routes
already  available  to  and  actively  pursued  by  competitive
LECs.
Even if the problem of false positives did not exist, conduct
consisting of anticompetitive  violations of § 251  may be,  as
we  have  concluded  with  respect  to  above-cost  predatory
pricing schemes,  "beyond  the practical  ability  of a judicial
tribunal to control."  Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown & Wil-
liamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209, 223 (1993).  Effective

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
remediation of violations of regulatory sharing requirements
will ordinarily require continuing supervision of a highly de-
tailed decree.  We  think that  Professor Areeda  got it ex-
actly  right: "No  court should impose  a duty to deal that it
cannot explain or adequately and reasonably supervise.  The
problem  should be deemed  irremedia[ble]  by antitrust  law
when  compulsory  access  requires  the court  to assume  the
day-to-day  controls  characteristic  of a regulatory  agency."
Areeda, 58 Antitrust L. J., at 853.  In this case, respondent
has  requested  an  equitable  decree  to  "[p]reliminarily  and
permanently enjoiln]  [Verizon] from providing access to the
local loop market ...  to [rivals] on terms and conditions that
are  not as  favorable"  as  those  that  Verizon  enjoys.  App.
49*-50.  An antitrust court is unlikely to be an effective day-
to-day enforcer of these detailed sharing obligations.4
*  *  *
The  1996 Act is, in an important respect, much more ambi-
tious than the antitrust laws.  It attempts "to eliminate the
monopolies enjoyed by the inheritors of AT&T's local fran-
chises."  Verizon Communications Inc. v. FCC, 535  U. S.,
at 476 (emphasis added).  Section 2 of the Sherman Act, by
contrast, seeks merely to prevent unlawful monopolization.
It would be a serious mistake to conflate the two goals.  The
Sherman Act is indeed the "Magna Carta of free enterprise,"
United States v.  Topco Associates, Inc., 405  U. S.  596, 610
(1972), but it does not give judges carte blanche to insist that
a monopolist alter its way of doing business whenever some
I The Court of Appeals also thought that respondent's complaint might
state a claim under a "monopoly leveraging" theory (a theory barely dis-
cussed by respondent, see Brief for Respondent 24, n. 10).  We disagree.
To the extent the Court of Appeals dispensed with a requirement that
there be a "dangerous probability of success" in monopolizing  a second
market, it erred, Spectrum Sports, Inc. v. McQuillan, 506 U. S. 447, 459
(1993).  In any event,  leveraging presupposes  anticompetitive  conduct,
which in this case could only be the refusal-to-deal claim we have rejected.

