

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  273 
Opinion of the Court 
tinuing activity” in respect to the regulation of commission 
rates.  Ibid.  Finally, without antitrust immunity, “the ex­
changes and their members” would be subject to “conﬂicting 
standards.”  Id., at 689. 
This last consideration—the conﬂict—was complicated due 
to Congress’, and the agency’s, changing views about the va­
lidity of ﬁxed commissions.  As far as the past ﬁxing of rates 
was concerned, the conﬂict was clear: The antitrust law had 
forbidden the very thing that the securities law had then 
permitted,  namely, an  anticompetitive ratesetting  process. 
In respect to the future, however, the conﬂict was less appar­
ent.  That was because the SEC’s new (congressionally au­
thorized) prohibition of (certain) ﬁxed rates would take effect 
in the near-term future.  And after that time the SEC and 
the  antitrust  law  would  both  likely  prohibit  some  of  the 
rateﬁxing  to  which  the  plaintiff’s  injunction  would  likely 
apply.  See id., at 690–691. 
Despite the likely compatibility of the laws in the future, 
the Court nonetheless expressly found conﬂict.  The conﬂict 
arose from the fact that the law permitted the SEC to super­
vise the competitive setting of rates and to “reintroduc[e] 
. . . ﬁxed rates,” id., at 691 (emphasis added), under certain 
conditions.  The Court consequently wrote that “failure to 
imply repeal would render nugatory the legislative provision 
for regulatory agency supervision of exchange commission 
rates.”  Ibid.  The upshot is that, in light of potential future 
conﬂict, the Court found that the securities law precluded 
antitrust liability even in respect to a practice that both anti­
trust law and securities law might forbid. 
In NASD the Court considered a Department of Justice 
antitrust complaint claiming that mutual fund companies had 
agreed  with  securities  broker-dealers  (1)  to  ﬁx  “resale” 
prices, i. e., the prices at which a broker-dealer would sell a 
mutual  fund’s  shares  to  an  investor  or  buy  mutual  fund 
shares  from  a  fund  investor  (who  wished  to  redeem  the 
shares); (2) to ﬁx other terms of sale including those related 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
274  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
to when, how, to whom, and from whom the broker-dealers 
might sell and buy mutual fund shares; and (3) to prohibit 
broker-dealers  from  freely  selling  to,  and  buying  shares 
from, one another.  See 422 U. S., at 700–703. 
The Court again found “clear repugnancy,” and it held that 
the securities law, by implication, precluded all parts of the 
antitrust  claim.  Id.,  at  719.  In reaching  this  conclusion, 
the Court found that antitrust law (e. g., forbidding resale 
price maintenance) and securities law (e. g., permitting resale 
price maintenance) were in conﬂict.  In deciding that the 
latter trumped the former, the Court relied upon the same 
kinds of considerations it found determinative in Gordon. 
In respect to the last set of allegations (restricting a free 
market in mutual fund shares among brokers), the Court said 
that (1) the relevant securities law “enables [the SEC] to 
monitor the activities questioned”; (2) “the history of Com­
mission regulations suggests no laxity in the exercise of this 
authority”; and hence (3) allowing an antitrust suit to pro­
ceed that is “so directly related to the SEC’s responsibilities” 
would present “a substantial danger that [broker-dealers and 
other defendants] would be subjected to duplicative and in­
consistent standards.”  NASD, 422 U. S., at 734–735. 
As to the other practices alleged in the complaint (concern­
ing, e. g., resale price maintenance), the Court emphasized 
that (1) the securities law “vested in the SEC ﬁnal authority 
to determine whether and to what extent” the relevant prac­
tices “should be tolerated,” id., at 729; (2) although the SEC 
has not actively supervised the relevant practices, that is 
only because the statute “reﬂects a clear congressional de­
termination that, subject to Commission oversight, mutual 
funds should be allowed to retain the initiative in dealing 
with  the  potentially  adverse  effects  of  disruptive  trading 
practices,” id., at 727; and (3) the SEC has supervised the 
funds insofar as its “acceptance of fund-initiated restrictions 
for more than three decades . . . manifests an informed ad­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  275 
Opinion of the Court 
ministrative judgment that the contractual restrictions . . . 
were appropriate means for combating the problems of the 
industry,” id., at 728.  The Court added that, in these re­
spects, the SEC had engaged in “precisely the kind of admin­
istrative oversight of private practices that Congress con­
templated.”  Ibid. 
As an initial matter these cases make clear that Justice 
Thomas is wrong to regard §§ 77p(a) and 78bb(a) as saving 
clauses so broad as to preserve all antitrust actions.  See 
post,  p.  287  (dissenting  opinion).  The  United  States  ad­
vanced the same argument in Gordon.  See Brief for United 
States as Amicus Curiae in Gordon v. New York Stock Ex­
change,  Inc.,  O.  T.  1974,  No.  74–304,  pp.  8,  42.  And  the 
Court, in ﬁnding immunity, necessarily rejected it.  See also 
NASD, supra, at 694 (same holding); Herman & MacLean v. 
Huddleston, 459 U. S. 375, 383 (1983) (ﬁnding saving clause 
applicable  to  overlap  between  securities  laws  where  that 
“overlap  [was]  neither  unusual  nor  unfortunate”  (internal 
quotation marks omitted)).  Although one party has made 
the  argument  in  this  Court,  it  was  not  presented  in  the 
courts below.  And we shall not reexamine it. 
This Court’s prior decisions also make clear that, when a 
court decides whether securities law precludes antitrust law, 
it is deciding whether, given context and likely consequences, 
there is a “clear repugnancy” between the securities law and 
the  antitrust  complaint—or  as  we  shall  subsequently  de­
scribe the matter, whether the two are “clearly incompati­
ble.”  Moreover, Gordon and NASD, in ﬁnding sufﬁcient in­
compatibility to warrant an implication of preclusion, have 
treated the following factors as critical: (1) the existence of 
regulatory authority under the securities law to supervise 
the activities in question; (2) evidence that the responsible 
regulatory entities exercise that authority; and (3) a result­
ing risk that the securities and antitrust laws, if both ap­
plicable, would produce conﬂicting guidance, requirements, 

