OCTOBER  TERM, 2002
Syllabus
DASTAR CORP. v. TWENTIETH  CENTURY FOX FILM
CORP. ET  AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE  NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 02-428.  Argued April 2, 2003-Decided June 2, 2003
General Dwight D. Eisenhower's World War II book, Crusade in Europe,
was published by Doubleday, which registered the work's copyright and
granted exclusive television rights to an affiliate of respondent Twenti-
eth Century Fox  Film Corporation  (Fox).  Fox, in turn, arranged  for
Time, Inc., to produce a Crusade in Europe television series based on
the book, and Time assigned its copyright in the series to Fox.  The
series was first broadcast  in  1949.  In 1975,  Doubleday renewed  the
book's copyright, but Fox never renewed the copyright on the television
series, which expired in 1977, leaving the series in the public domain.
In 1988, Fox reacquired the television rights in the book, including the
exclusive right to distribute the Crusade television series on video and
to sublicense  others to do so.  Respondents SFM Entertainment  and
New  Line  Home  Video,  Inc., acquired  from Fox  the exclusive  rights
to manufacture  and distribute  Crusade on video.  In  1995, petitioner
Dastar released a video set, World War II Campaigns in Europe, which
it made  from tapes  of the original  version of the Crusade  television
series and sold as its own product for substantially less than New Line's
video set.  Fox, SFM, and New Line brought this action alleging, inter
alia, that Dastar's sale of Campaigns without proper credit to the Cru-
sade television series constitutes "reverse passing off" in violation of
§ 43(a) of the Lanham  Act.  The District  Court granted respondents
summary judgment.  The Ninth Circuit affirmed in relevant part, hold-
ing, among other things, that because Dastar copied substantially the
entire  Crusade  series, labeled the resulting product  with a different
name, and marketed  it without attribution to  Fox, Dastar  had  com-
mitted a "bodily appropriation" of Fox's series, which was sufficient to
establish the reverse passing off.
Held: Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act does not prevent the unaccredited
copying of an uncopyrighted work.  Pp. 28-38.
(a) Respondents'  claim that Dastar has made a "false designation  of
origin, false or misleading description of fact, or false or misleading rep-
resentation of fact, which ...  is likely to cause confusion ...  as to the
origin ...  of [its] goods" in violation  of § 43(a) of the Lanham Act, 15
U. S. C. § 1125(a), would undoubtedly be sustained if Dastar had bought

NEW PAGE

24  DASTAR  CORP. v. TWENTIETH  CENTURY FOX
FILM CORP.
Syllabus
some of New Line's Crusade videotapes  and merely repackaged them
as its own.  However, Dastar has instead taken a creative work in the
public  domain,  copied  it, made  modifications  (arguably  minor),  and
produced its very own series of videotapes.  If "origin" refers only to
the manufacturer or producer of the physical "good" that is made avail-
able  to the public (here, the videotapes),  Dastar was the origin.  If,
however,  "origin" includes  the creator  of the underlying  work  that
Dastar  copied,  then  someone  else  (perhaps  Fox)  was  the  origin  of
Dastar's product.  At bottom, the Court must decide what § 43(a) means
by the "origin" of "goods."  Pp. 28-31.
(b) Because Dastar was the "origin" of the physical products it sold
as its own, respondents cannot prevail on their Lanham Act claim.  As
dictionary definitions affirm, the most natural understanding of the "ori-
gin" of "goods"-the source of wares-is the producer of the tangible
product sold in the marketplace,  here Dastar's Campaigns videotape.
The phrase "origin of goods" in the Lanham Act is incapable of connot-
ing the person or entity that originated the ideas that "goods" embody
or contain.  The consumer typically does not care about such origina-
tion, and § 43(a) should not be stretched to cover matters that are of no
consequence  to purchasers.  Although purchasers do care about ideas
or communications contained or embodied  in a communicative  product
such as a video, giving the Lanham Act special application to such prod-
ucts would cause  it to conflict with copyright law, which is precisely
directed to that subject, and which grants the public the right to copy
without attribution once a copyright has expired, e. g., Sears, Roebuck &
Co. v. Stiffel Co., 376 U. S. 225, 230.  Recognizing a § 43(a) cause of ac-
tion here would render superfluous the provisions of the Visual Artists
Rights Act that grant an artistic work's author "the right ...  to claim
authorship,"  17  U. S. C. § 106A(a)(1)(A),  but carefully  limit and focus
that  right, §§ 101,  106A(b),  (d)(1),  and  (e).  It would  also  pose  seri-
ous  practical  problems.  Finally, reading  §43(a)  as creating  a  cause
of action for, in effect, plagiarism would be hard to reconcile with, e. g.,
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Samara Brothers, Inc., 529 U. S. 205,  211.
Pp. 31-38.
34 Fed. Appx. 312, reversed and remanded.
SCALIA, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Mem-
bers joined, except BREYER, J., who took no part in the consideration or
decision of the case.
David A.  Gerber argued  the cause  for petitioner.  With
him  on  the  briefs  were  Stewart A.  Baker, Bennett Evan
Cooper, and David Nimmer.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 539 U. S. 23 (2003)
Opinion of the Court
Gregory G. Garre argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With him on the brief
were Solicitor General Olson, Assistant Attorney General
McCallum, Deputy Solicitor General Clement, Anthony J.
Steinmeyer, and Mark S. Davies.
Dale M. Cendali argued the cause for respondents.  With
her on the briefs were Walter E. Dellinger, Pamela A. Har-
ris, Jonathan D. Hacker, Jeremy Maltby, Pammela Quinn,
and Gary D. Roberts.*
JUSTICE SCALIA delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case, we are asked to decide whether § 43(a) of the
Lanham Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1125(a), prevents the unaccredited
copying of a work, and if so, whether a court may double a
profit award under § 1117(a), in order to deter future infring-
ing conduct.
I
In 1948, three and a half years after the German surrender
at Reims, General Dwight D. Eisenhower completed Crusade
in Europe, his written account of the allied campaign in Eu-
rope during World War II.  Doubleday published the book,
registered it with the Copyright Office in 1948, and granted
exclusive television rights to an affiliate of respondent Twen-
tieth Century Fox Film Corporation (Fox).  Fox, in turn, ar-
ranged  for Time,  Inc.,  to produce  a  television  series,  also
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the International
Trademark Association by Bruce R. Ewing; and for Malla Pollack et al.
by Ms. Pollack, pro se.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Association
for Competitive Technology et al. by Paul Bender and Michael R. Klipper;
and for the Directors Guild of America et al. by Richard P. Bress.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Intellectual Property
Law Association by William G. Barber, Louis T Pirkey, and Ronald E.
Myrick; for the American  Library Association et al. by JonathanB  and
and Peter Jaszi; and for Intellectual Property Law Professors by Tyler
T Ochoa.

