549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
312  OCTOBER TERM, 2006 
Syllabus 
WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARD- 

WOOD LUMBER CO., INC. 

certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the ninth circuit 
No. 05–381.  Argued November 28, 2006—Decided February 20, 2007 
Respondent Ross-Simmons, a sawmill, ﬁled suit under § 2 of the Sherman 
Act, alleging that petitioner Weyerhaeuser drove it out of business by 
bidding up the price of sawlogs to a level that prevented Ross-Simmons 
from being proﬁtable.  The District Court, inter alia, rejected Weyer­
haeuser’s proposed predatory-bidding jury instructions that incorpo­
rated elements of the test applied to predatory-pricing claims in Brooke 
Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209.  The 
jury returned a verdict against Weyerhaeuser.  The Ninth Circuit af­
ﬁrmed, rejecting Weyerhaeuser’s argument that Brooke Group’s stand­
ard should apply to predatory-bidding claims. 
Held: The test this Court applied to predatory-pricing claims in Brooke 
Group also applies to predatory-bidding claims.  Pp. 318–326. 
(a) Predatory pricing is a scheme in which the predator reduces the 
sale price of its product hoping to drive competitors out of business and, 
once competition has been vanquished, raises prices to a supracompeti­
tive level.  Brooke Group established two prerequisites to recovery on 
a predatory-pricing claim: First, a plaintiff must show that the prices 
complained of are below cost, 509 U. S., at 222, because allowing recov­
ery for above-cost price cutting could chill conduct—price cutting—that 
directly beneﬁts consumers.  Second, a plaintiff must show that the al­
leged predator had “a dangerous probabilit[y] of recouping its invest­
ment in below-cost pric[ing],” id., at 224, because without such a proba­
bility, it is highly unlikely that a ﬁrm would engage in predatory pricing. 
The costs of erroneous ﬁndings of predatory-pricing liability are quite 
high because “ ‘[t]he mechanism by which a ﬁrm engages in predatory 
pricing—lowering prices—is the same mechanism by which a ﬁrm stim­
ulates competition,’ ” and, therefore, mistaken liability ﬁndings would 
“ ‘ “chill the very conduct the antitrust laws are designed to protect.” ’ ” 
Id., at 226.  Pp. 318–320. 
(b) Predatory bidding involves the exercise of market power on the 
market’s buy, or input, side.  To engage in predatory bidding, a pur­
chaser bids up the market price of an input so high that rival buyers 
cannot  survive,  thus  acquiring  monopsony  power,  which  is  market 
power on the buy side of the market.  Once a predatory bidder causes 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  313 
Syllabus 
competing buyers to exit the market, it will attempt to drive down input 
prices to reap supracompetitive proﬁts that will at least offset the losses 
it suffered in bidding up input prices.  Pp. 320–321. 
(c) Predatory-pricing and predatory-bidding claims are analytically 
similar.  And the close theoretical connection between monopoly and 
monopsony suggests that similar legal standards should apply to both 
sorts of claims.  Both involve the deliberate use of unilateral pricing 
measures for anticompetitive purposes and both require ﬁrms to incur 
certain short-term losses on the chance that they might later make su­
pracompetitive proﬁts.  More importantly, predatory bidding mirrors 
predatory pricing in respects deemed signiﬁcant in Brooke Group.  Be­
cause rational businesses will rarely suffer short-term losses in hopes 
of  reaping  supracompetitive  proﬁts,  Brooke  Group’s  conclusion  that 
“ ‘predatory pricing schemes are rarely tried, and even more rarely suc­
cessful,’” 509 U. S., at 226, applies with equal force to predatory-bidding 
schemes.  And like the predatory conduct in Brooke Group, actions 
taken in a predatory-bidding scheme are often “ ‘ “the very essence of 
competition,” ’ ” ibid., because a failed predatory-bidding scheme can be 
a “boon to consumers,” see id., at 224.  Predatory bidding also presents 
less of a direct threat of consumer harm than predatory pricing, which 
achieves ultimate success by charging higher prices to consumers, be­
cause a predatory bidder does not necessarily rely on raising prices in 
the output market to recoup its losses.  Pp. 321–325. 
(d) Given these similarities, Brooke Group’s two-pronged test should 
apply to predatory-bidding claims.  A predatory-bidding plaintiff must 
prove that the predator’s bidding on the buy side caused the cost of the 
relevant output to rise above the revenues generated in the sale of those 
outputs.  Because the risk of chilling procompetitive behavior with too 
lax a liability standard is as serious here as it was in Brooke Group, 
only higher bidding that leads to below-cost pricing in the relevant out­
put market will sufﬁce as a basis for predatory-bidding liability.  A 
predatory-bidding plaintiff also must prove that the defendant has a 
dangerous probability of recouping the losses incurred in bidding up 
input prices through the exercise of monopsony power.  Making such a 
showing will require “a close analysis of both the scheme alleged by the 
plaintiff and the [relevant market’s] structure and conditions,” 509 U. S., 
at 226.  Pp. 325–326. 
(e) Because Ross-Simmons has conceded that it has not satisﬁed the 
Brooke Group standard, its predatory-bidding theory of liability cannot 
support the jury’s verdict.  P. 326. 
411 F. 3d 1030, vacated and remanded. 
Thomas, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
314  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
Andrew J. Pincus argued the cause for petitioner.  With 
him on the briefs were Charles A. Rothfeld, Guy C. Stephen­
son, Stephen V. Bomse, M. Laurence Popofsky, Kevin J. Ar­
quit, and Joseph F. Tringali. 
Kannon K. Shanmugam argued the cause for the United 
States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With him on the 
brief were Solicitor General Clement, Assistant Attorney 
General Barnett, Deputy Solicitor General Hungar, Deputy 
Assistant Attorney General Masoudi, Catherine G. O’Sulli­
van, and Adam D. Hirsh. 
Michael  E.  Haglund  argued  the  cause  for  respondent. 
With  him  on  the  brief  were  Michael  K.  Kelley  and  Roy 
Pulvers.* 
Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court. 
Respondent Ross-Simmons, a sawmill, sued petitioner 
Weyerhaeuser, alleging that Weyerhaeuser drove it out of 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for AT&T Inc. et al. 
by A. Douglas Melamed, Jonathan Nuechterlein, William M. Schur, Ron­
ald A. Stern, John Thorne, and Paul J. Larkin, Jr.; for the Business 
Roundtable et al. by Janet L. McDavid, Catherine E. Stetson, Jessica L. 
Ellsworth, Jan S. Amundson, and Quentin Riegel; for the Chamber of 
Commerce of the United States of America et al. by Roy T. Englert, Jr., 
Donald J. Russell, Mark T. Stancil, Stephen A. Bokat, Robin S. Conrad, 
Amar D. Sarwal, and Richard S. Wasserstrom; for Economists by Joe 
Sims and Beth Heifetz; for Law Professors by Joseph J. Simons and Moses 
Silverman; and for Timberland Owners and Managers by Jeffrey A. Lam­
ken and Barnes H. Ellis. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the State of 
California et al. by Hardy Myers, Attorney General of Oregon, and Tim 
D. Nord, Senior Assistant Attorney General, by Bill Lockyer, Attorney 
General of California, Thomas Greene, Chief Assistant Attorney General, 
Kathleen E. Foote, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Emilio E. Var­
anini IV, Deputy Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for 
their respective States as follows: Terry Goddard of Arizona, Thomas J. 
Miller of Iowa, Charles C. Foti, Jr., of Louisiana, Mike McGrath of Mon­
tana, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Peggy A. Lauten­
schlager of Wisconsin; for the American Antitrust Institute by Jonathan 
L. Rubin, Jonathan W. Cuneo, and Robert H. Lande; and for Forest Indus­
try Participants by R. Daniel Lindahl. 

