MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  173
Syllabus.
MINNEAPOLIS  & ST. LOUIS  RAILWAY  CO. v.
UNITED  STATES  ET  AL.
APPEAL FROM  THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT  COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT  OF  MINNESOTA.
No.  12.  Argued  November  16-17,  1959.-
Decided  December  14,  1959.*
Under § 5 (2)  of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Commission was
confronted with rival applications by several railroads for authority
to acquire  control of the Toledo,  Peoria & Western  Railroad,  an
independent,  short-line,  "bridge  carrier"  of  through  east-west
traffic  by-passing  the  congested  Chicago  and St.  Louis gateways
and connecting  with 16 other railroads.  After extended  hearings,
the Commission found that the plan  for joint control  of Western
by  the Santa  Fe and  Pennsylvania  Railroads  contemplated  that
Western would  continue  to  be operated  as  a separate  and  inde-
pendent  carrier  with responsible  local  management  and  that  all
existing  routes  via Western  would be  maintained and  kept open
without  discrimination  between  connecting  lines of railroads;  but
that the plan  of the Minneapolis  & St. Louis Railroad to acquire
sole control of Western contemplated its disappearance  as an inde-
pendent and neutral connection  for 15 other carriers, that it would
be  extremely  harmful  to other carriers  and  that it would  result
in termination  of the employment  of most of Western's 24 execu-
tives and  225  other employees.  The  Commission  concluded  that
the acquisition and plan of operation by the Santa Fe and Pennsyl-
vania, subject to stated conditions,  vas within the scope of § 5 (2)
of the Act, that the proposed terms and conditions  were just and
reasonable,  and that the transaction would  be consistent with the
public interest.  It,  therefore, approved the Santa Fe-Pennsylvania
application,  dismissed  the  Minneapolis. application,  and  denied
applications by several intervening railroads for permission to par-
ticipate in the acquisition of Western's stock.  The District Court
sustained the Commission's order.  Held: The judgment is affirmed.
Pp. 176-194.
*Together with No. 27, South Dakota et al. v. United States et al.,
and No. 28, Minnesota et al. v.  United States et al., also on appeals
from the same Court.

NEW PAGE

174  OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Syllabus.  361 U. S.
1. The  record  shows  that the  Commission's  finding  that  con-
tinued operation of Western as a "separate and independent carrier"
was required by the "public  interest" did not deprive the Minne-
apolis & St. Louis  Railroad  of  "fair  comparative  consideration"
and that it was made  after  full and fair  consideration;  and the
District Court did not err in so holding.  Pp. 184-185.
2. Notwithstanding  appellants'  contention  that  acquisition  of
Western by Santa  Fe and  Pennsylvania would  create  a combina-
tion in restraint  of commerce  in violation  of § 1 of the  Sherman
Act and would lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in
violation  of  § 7 of  the  Clayton  Act,  the  record  shows  that the
Commission  fully  estimated  the  scope  and  appraised  the  effects
of any  resulting  curtailment  of  competition  and  concluded  that
the proposed  acquisition  and  plan  of operation  would  not  result
in any significant  lessening of competition;  and this determination
rests upon  adequate  findings, supported by  substantial  evidence,
and is well within the limits of the Commission's discretion under
the Act.  Pp. 185-189.
(a)  Although  § 5 (11)  does not authorize  the Commission to
"ignore"  the antitrust  laws, it does  authorize the Commission  to
approve  acquisitions  which  might  otherwise violate  the antitrust
laws, if it finds that such acquisitions are in the public interest, and,
upon approval  of the acquisitions  by the Commission,  it relieves
the acquiring carriers from the operation of the antitrust laws.  Pp.
185-187.
(b)  As  respects railroad  acquisitions, the .Commission  is not
so bound by the antitrust laws that it must permit them to overbear
what  it finds  to  be  in the  public  interest, and  the wisdom  and
experience of the Commission,  not of the courts, must determine
whether the proposed acquisition is in the public interest.  Pp. 187-
188.
(c) The Commission gave extensive consideration to this con-
tention 'of  appellants  and  determined  that  the  acquisition  of
Western by Santa Fe and Pennsylvania and their plan of operation
of Western would  not  result in any significant  lessening  of com-
petition; and that determination was baced upon adequate findings,
supported by substantial  evidence,  and was well within the limits
of the Commission's  discretion under the Act.  Pp. 188-189.
3. Notwithstanding  appellants'  contention  that  Pennsylvania
actually  contracted  to purchase  50%  of  Western's  stock from  a
trust  company  which had  four common  directors  with Pennsyl-
vania  and  that such -purchase would  violate  § 10  of the Clayton

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R1. CO.  v.  U.  S. 175
173  Syllabus.
Act, the Commission's action in approving Pennsylvania's  acquisi-
tion of the stock, after fully considering all factors bearing thereon,
did not exceed  the statutory limits of the Commission's discretion.
Pp. 189-191.
4. Whether or not § 5 (11)  operates only in futuro is immaterial
in this case,  since the  existing  contractual  arrangements  through
which  Pennsylvania asked authority  to acquire 50%  of Western's
stock looked entirely to the future.  Pp. 191-192.
5. Notwithstanding appellants" contention that the Commission
violated § 8 (b)  of the Administrative Procedure Act by failing to
make findings  which, they think, were compelled by the evidence,
the record discloses that the Commission made adequate subsidiary
findings  upon all  material  issues and  made the  ultimate findings
required by § 5 (2), that they support the Commission's order and
that they are,  in  turn, supported  by  substantial  evidence.  Pp.
192-194.
6. The  District  Court  fairly considered  and, decided  all of  the
issues raised by appellants, accorded to them a full and fair judicial
review, and reached a right result.  P. 194.
165 F. Supp. 893, affirmed.
Max Swiren and Harold J. Soderberg argued the cause
for appellants..  Max Swiren, John G. Dorsey and Richard
Musenbrock were  on  the  brief  for  the  Minneapolis  &
St.  Louis  Railway  Co.,  appellant  in  No.  12;  Parnell
Donohue, Attorney  General  of  South  Dakota,  Herman
L.  Bode,  Assistant  Attorney  General,  and  Ernest W.
Stephens for the State of South Dakota et al., appellants
in No. 27;  and Miles-L  ord, Attorney  General of Minne-
sota, and Harold J.  Soderberg, Assistant Attorney  Gen-
eral, for the State of Minnesota et al., appellants in No. 28.
Robert W. Ginnane and Starr Thomas argued the cause
for appellees.  Solicitor GeneralR  ankin, Acting Assistant
Attorney General Bicks, Richard A. Solomon, Robert W.
Ginnane and B. Franklin Taylor, Jr. were on the brief for
the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commis-
sion;  Grenville Beardsley, Attorney  General  of  Illinois,
and  Harry R.  Begley, Special  Assistant  Attorney  Gen-
525554 0-60-17

