OCTOBER TERM, 1992
Syllabus
HARTFORD  FIRE  INSURANCE  CO. ET  AL.
v.  CALIFORNIA  ET  AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 91-1111.  Argued February 23, 1993-Decided June 28, 1993*
Nineteen States and many private plaintiffs filed complaints alleging that
the  defendants-four  domestic  primary insurers,  domestic  companies
who sell reinsurance to insurers, two domestic trade associations, a do-
mestic reinsurance  broker, and reinsurers  based in London-violated
the Sherman Act by engaging in various conspiracies  aimed at forcing
certain other primary insurers to change  the terms of their standard
domestic commercial general liability insurance policies to conform with
the policies  the defendant insurers wanted  to sell.  After the actions
were consolidated  for litigation, the District Court granted the defend-
ants' motions to dismiss.  The Court of Appeals reversed, rejecting the
District Court's conclusion that the defendants were entitled to antitrust
immunity under § 2(b) of the McCarran-Ferguson  Act, which exempts
from  federal  regulation "the  business  of insurance,"  except  "to  the
extent that such business is not regulated by State Law."  Although it
held the conduct involved  to be "the business of insurance,"  the Court
of Appeals ruled that the foreign reinsurers did not fall within § 2(b)'s
protection  because  their activities  could  not be "regulated  by  State
Law," and that the domestic insurers had forfeited their §2(b) exemp-
tion when they conspired with the nonexempt foreign reinsurers.  Fur-
thermore, held the  court, most of the conduct in question fell within
§ 3(b), which provides that nothing in the McCarran-Ferguson Act "shall
render the... Sherman Act inapplicable to any...  act of boycott ......
Finally, the court rejected the District Court's conclusion that the prin-
ciple  of international  comity barred it from  exercising Sherman  Act
jurisdiction over the  three claims  brought solely against  the London
reinsurers.
Held  The judgment is affirmed in part and reversed in part, and the cases
are remanded.
938 F. 2d 919, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
JUSTICE SOUTER  delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to
Parts I, II-A, III, and IV, concluding that:
*Together with No. 91-1128,  Merrett Underwriting Agency  Manage-
ment Ltd. et al. v. California et al., also on certiorari to the same court.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Syllabus
1. The domestic defendants did not lose their § 2(b) immunity by con-
spiring with the foreign defendants.  The Court of Appeals's conclusion
to the contrary  was based in part on the statement, in Group Life &
Health Ins. Co. v. Royal Drug Co., 440 U. S. 205, 231, that, "[in analo-
gous contexts, the Court has held that an exempt entity forfeits anti-
trust exemption by acting in concert with nonexempt parties."  Even
assuming that foreign reinsurers were "not regulated by State Law,"
the Court of Appeals's reasoning fails because the analogy drawn by the
Royal  Drug Court was  a  loose  one.  Following  that language,  the
Royal Drug Court cited two cases dealing  with the Capper-Volstead
Act, which  immunizes  certain "persons" from  Sherman  Act liability.
Ibid.  Because, in contrast, the McCarran-Ferguson  Act immunizes ac-
tivities rather than entities, an entity-based analysis of § 2(b) immunity
is inappropriate.  See  id., at 232-233.  Moreover,  the agreements at
issue in Royal Drug Co. were made with "parties wholly outside the
insurance industry," id., at 231, whereas the alleged agreements here
are with foreign reinsurers  and admittedly  concern "the  business  of
insurance."  Pp. 781-784.
2. Even assuming that a court may decline to exercise Sherman Act
jurisdiction over foreign conduct in an appropriate case, international
comity would not counsel against exercising jurisdiction in the circum-
stances alleged here.  The only substantial question in this litigation is
whether "there is in fact a true conflict between domestic and foreign
law."  Soci~t6 Nationale Industrielle A~rospatiale v.  United States
Dist. Court for Southern Dist. of Iowa, 482 U. S. 522, 555 (BLACKMUN,
J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).  That question must be
answered in the negative, since the London reinsurers do not argue that
British law requires them to act in some fashion prohibited by United
States law or claim that their compliance with the laws of both countries
is otherwise impossible.  Pp. 794-799.
JUSTICE SCALIA delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to
Part I, concluding  that a "boycott" for purposes of §3(b) of the Act
occurs  where, in order to  coerce  a target into certain terms on one
transaction, parties  refuse to engage  in other, unrelated  transactions
with the target.  It is not a "boycott" but rather a concerted agreement
to terms (a "cartelization") where parties refuse to engage in a particu-
lar transaction until the terms of that transaction are agreeable.  Under
the foregoing  test, the  allegations  of a  "boycott"  in  this  litigation,
construed most favorably to the respondents, are sufficient to sustain
most of the relevant counts of complaint against a motion to dismiss.
Pp. 800-811.

NEW PAGE

766  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Syllabus
SOUTER,  J.,  announced the judgment of the Court and delivered  the
opinion for a unanimous Court with respect to Parts I and II-A, the opin-
ion of the Court with respect to Parts III and IV, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J.,  and WHrrE, BLACKMUN,  and STEVENS, JJ., joined, and an opinion
concurring in the judgment with respect to Part II--B,  in which WHITE,
BLACKMUN,  and STEVENS, JJ., joined.  SCALiA, J., delivered the opinion
of the Court with respect to Part I, in which REHNQUIST, C. J., and O'CON-
NOR, KENNEDY,  and  THoMAS, JJ., joined, and  a dissenting  opinion with
respect to Part II, in which O'CONNOR, KENNEDY, and THOMAS, JJ., joined,
post, p. 800.
Stephen M. Shapiro argued  the  cause fIr petitioners  in
No. 91-1111.  With him on the briefs were Kenneth S. Gel-
ler, Mark I. Levy, Roy  T Englert, Jr., Timothy S. Bishop,
Ronald A. Jacks, Richard E. Sherwood, William A. Mont-
gomery, William M. Hannay, John G. Hark ins, Jr., Eleanor
Morris Illoway, Bartlett H. McGuire, Douglas L Brandon,
James S. Greenan, Raoul D. Kennedy, Alan H. Silberman,
Stuart Altschuler, Peter 0.  Glaessner, David L.  Foster,
Gregory L. Harris,F  rank Rothman, Timothy E. Carr,K  ent
E.  Keller, Lewis A.  Kaplan, Allan Blumstein, Ronald C.
Redcay, Michael M.  Uhlmann, Robert B. Green, Stephen
M. Axinn, Michael L. Weiner, James M. Burns, Eugene F.
Bannigan, Christine C. Burgess, Robert M. Mitchell, Philip
H. Curtis,Z oe Baird, Jane Kelly, Joseph P. Giasi,J r., Joseph
A. Gervasi, Debra J. Anderson, Michael S. Wilder, Jeffrey
L. Morris, Edmond F. Rondepierre, and  John J. Hayden.
Molly S. Boast argued  the  cause for petitioners in No. 91-
1128.  With her on  the  briefs for  petitioners Merrett  Un-
derwriting Agency Management  Ltd. et al. were Lawrence
W. Pollack, Andreas F. Lowenfeld, Barry L. Bunshoft, Eric
J. Sinrod, David W. Slaby, Michael L. McCluggage, James
T  Nyeste,  Michael R. Blankshain, Jerome N. Lerch, Paul
R. Haerle, Martin Frederic Evans, Donald Francis Dono-
van, and  Colby A. Smith.  Barry R. Ostroger, Eleanor M.
Fox, Mary Kay Vyskocil, and Kathryn A. Clokey ified briefs
for  petitioner  Sturge  Reinsurance  Syndicate  Management
Ltd.

