

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  403 
Opinion of the Court 
Despite the straightforward language employed in Cone, 
Globe Liquor, and Johnson, respondent maintains that those 
cases dictate afﬁrmance here, because in each of those cases 
the litigants secured a new trial.  But in each of those cases 
the appellants moved for a new trial postverdict in the Dis­
trict Court, and did not seek to establish their entitlement 
to a  new trial  solely on  the basis  of a  denied Rule  50(a) 
motion.  See Cone, supra, at 213 (noting that respondent 
moved for a new trial); 5 Globe Liquor, supra, at 572 (“The 
50(b),” 386 U. S., at 325.  Contrary to the dissent’s suggestion, Neely con­
ﬁrms that the broad grant of authority to the courts of appeals in § 2106 
must be exercised consistent with the requirements of the Federal Rules 
of Civil Procedure as interpreted by this Court. 
The dissent’s approach is not only foreclosed by authority of this Court, 
it also may present Seventh Amendment concerns.  The implication of the 
dissent’s interpretation of § 2106 is that a court of appeals would be free 
to examine the sufﬁciency of the evidence regardless of whether the appel­
lant had ﬁled a Rule 50(a) motion in the district court and, in the event 
the appellant had ﬁled a Rule 50(a) motion, regardless of whether the 
district court had ever ruled on that motion.  The former is squarely fore­
closed by Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co.,  228 U. S. 364 (1913), and the 
latter is inconsistent with this Court’s explanation of the requirements of 
the Seventh Amendment in Baltimore & Carolina Line, Inc. v. Redman, 
295 U. S. 654, 658 (1935) (explaining that “under the pertinent rules of the 
common law the court of appeals could set aside the verdict for error of 
law, such as the trial court’s ruling respecting the sufﬁciency of the evi­
dence, and direct a new trial, but could not itself determine the issues of 
fact and direct a judgment for the defendant, for this would cut off the 
plaintiff’s unwaived right to have the issues of fact determined by a jury” 
(emphasis added)).  Indeed, Rule 50 was drafted with such concerns in 
mind.  See 9A C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure 
§ 2522, pp. 244–246 (2d ed. 1995) (hereinafter Federal Practice). 
5 While the precise nature of the new trial motion at issue in Cone is 
difﬁcult to ascertain from this Court’s description of that motion, the 
Court of Appeals opinion in that case conﬁrms that the movant had prop­
erly objected to the admission of certain evidence, and then moved post­
verdict “for a new trial [on the basis of the inadmissible evidence] and 
later renewed this motion upon the basis of newly-discovered evidence.” 
West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co. v. Cone, 153 F. 2d 576, 580 (CA4 1946). 
This Court did not disturb the Court of Appeals’ holding that formed the 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
404  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
respondents . . . moved for a new trial on the ground . . . that 
there were many contested issues of fact”).  Indeed, John­
son concluded that respondent was only entitled to a new 
trial by virtue of its motion for such “within the time re­
quired by Rule 50(b).”  344 U. S., at 54.  Accordingly, these 
outcomes merely underscore our holding today—a party is 
not entitled to pursue a new trial on appeal unless that party 
makes  an  appropriate  postverdict  motion  in  the  district 
court. 
Our  determination  that  respondent’s  failure  to  comply 
with Rule 50(b) forecloses its challenge to the sufﬁciency of 
the evidence is further validated by the purported basis of 
respondent’s appeal, namely, the District Court’s denial of 
respondent’s  preverdict  Rule  50(a)  motion.  As  an  initial 
matter, Cone, Globe Liquor, and Johnson unequivocally es­
tablish that the precise subject matter of a party’s Rule 50(a) 
motion—namely, its entitlement to judgment as a matter of 
law—cannot be appealed unless that motion is renewed pur­
suant to Rule 50(b).  Here, respondent does not seek to pur­
sue on appeal the precise claim it raised in its Rule 50(a) 
motion before the District Court—namely, its entitlement to 
judgment as a matter of law.  Rather, it seeks a new trial 
based on the legal insufﬁciency of the evidence.  But if, as 
in Cone, Globe Liquor, and Johnson, a litigant that has failed 
to ﬁle a Rule 50(b) motion is foreclosed from seeking the 
relief it sought in its Rule 50(a) motion—i. e., the entry of 
judgment—then surely respondent is foreclosed from seek­
ing a new trial, relief it did not and could not seek in its 
preverdict motion.  In short, respondent never sought a new 
trial before the District Court, and thus forfeited its right to 
do so on appeal.  Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414, 444 
(1944)  (“No  procedural  principle  is  more  familiar  to  this 
Court than that a . . .  right may be forfeited . . . by the 
basis of the movant’s entitlement to a new trial, namely, “the Circuit Court 
of Appeals’ holding that there was prejudicial error in the admission of 
evidence.”  330 U. S., at 215. 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  405 
Opinion of the Court 
failure to make timely assertion of the right before a tribunal 
having jurisdiction to determine it”). 
The text of Rule 50(b) conﬁrms that respondent’s prever­
dict Rule 50(a) motion did not present the District Court 
with the option of ordering a new trial.  That text provides 
that a district court may only order a new trial on the basis 
of issues raised in a preverdict Rule 50(a) motion when “rul­
ing on a renewed motion” under Rule 50(b).  Accordingly, 
even if the District Court was inclined to grant a new trial 
on the basis of arguments raised in respondent’s preverdict 
motion, it was without the power to do so under Rule 50(b) 
absent a postverdict motion pursuant to that Rule.  Conse­
quently, the Court of Appeals was similarly powerless. 
Similarly, the text and application of Rule 50(a) support 
our determination that respondent may not challenge the 
sufﬁciency of the evidence on appeal on the basis of the Dis­
trict Court’s denial of its Rule 50(a) motion.  The Rule pro­
vides that “the court may determine” that “there is no le­
gally sufﬁcient evidentiary basis for a reasonable jury to ﬁnd 
for [a] party on [a given] issue,” and “may grant a motion for 
judgment as a matter of law against that party . . . .”  (Em­
phasis added.)  Thus, while a district court is permitted to 
enter judgment as a matter of law when it concludes that 
the evidence is legally insufﬁcient, it is not required to do so. 
To the contrary, the district courts are, if anything, encour­
aged to submit the case to the jury, rather than granting 
such motions.  As Wright and Miller explain: 
“Even at the close of all the evidence it may be desir­
able to refrain from granting a motion for judgment as 
a matter of law despite the fact that it would be possible 
for the district court to do so.  If judgment as a matter 
of law is granted and the appellate court holds that the 
evidence in fact was sufﬁcient to go to the jury, an entire 
new trial must be had.  If, on the other hand, the trial 
court submits the case to the jury, though it thinks the 
evidence insufﬁcient, ﬁnal determination of the case is 

