

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
Liggett's  black and  whites  had  switched  from  a  Brown  &
Williamson brand.  Losing volume and profits in its branded
products,  Brown  & Williamson  determined  to  enter  the
generic  segment  of the  cigarette  market.  In July  1983,
Brown & Williamson had begun selling Value-25s, and in the
spring  of  1984,  it  introduced  its  own  black  and  white
cigarette.
Brown  & Williamson  was  neither  the first  nor the  only
cigarette company to recognize the threat posed by Liggett's
black and  whites and  to respond  in the economy  segment.
R. J. Reynolds had also introduced a Value-25 in 1983.  And
before  Brown  & Williamson  introduced  its  own black and
whites, R. J. Reynolds had repriced its "Doral" branded ciga-
rette at generic levels.  To compete with Liggett's black and
whites, R. J. Reynolds dropped its list price on Doral about
30% and used volume rebates to wholesalers as an incentive
to spur orders.  Doral was the first competition at Liggett's
price level.
Brown & Williamson's entry was an even graver threat to
Liggett's  dominance  of the generic  category.  Unlike  R. J.
Reynolds'  Doral, Brown & Williamson's product was  also a
black and white and so would be in direct competition with
Liggett's  product  at the wholesale  level  and  on  the retail
shelf.  Because  Liggett's  and  Brown  & Williamson's  black
and whites were more or less fungible, wholesalers had little
incentive  to  carry  more  than  one  line.  And  unlike  R. J.
Reynolds,  Brown & Williamson  not only matched  Liggett's
prices but beat them.  At the retail level, the suggested list
price  of Brown  & Williamson's  black and  whites  was  the
same  as  Liggett's,  but Brown  & Williamson's  volume  dis-
counts  to  wholesalers  were  larger.  Brown  & Williamson's
rebate structure also encompassed  a greater number of vol-
ume  categories  than  Liggett's, with the highest categories
carrying  special rebates for orders of very substantial  size.
Brown  & Williamson marketed its black and whites to Lig-
gett's existing distributors as well as to its own full list of

NEW PAGE

216  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
buyers, which included a thousand wholesalers  who had not
yet carried any generic products.
Liggett responded  to Brown  & Williamson's  introduction
of black and whites in two ways.  First, Liggett  increased
its own wholesale rebates.  This precipitated a price war at
the wholesale level, in which Liggett five times attempted to
beat  the rebates offered by  Brown  & Williamson.  At the
end  of each round,  Brown  & Williamson  maintained  a real
advantage over Liggett's prices.  Although it is undisputed
that  Brown  & Williamson's  original  net price  for its black
and whites was above its costs, Liggett contends that by the
end of the rebate war, Brown & Williamson was selling its
black and whites at a loss.  This rebate war occurred before
Brown  & Williamson  had  sold  a  single  black  and  white
cigarette.
Liggett's  second  response  was  to  file  a  lawsuit.  Two
weeks after  Brown  & Williamson  announced its entry into
the generic segment, again before Brown & Williamson had
sold any generic cigarettes,  Liggett filed a complaint in the
United States District Court for the Middle District of North
Carolina alleging trademark infringement and unfair compe-
tition.  Liggett later amended its complaint to add an anti-
trust claim under ยง 2(a) of the Clayton  Act, as amended  by
the Robinson-Patman  Act, 49 Stat. 1526,  15 U. S. C. ยง 13(a),
which  alleged  illegal  price  discrimination  between  Brown
& Williamson's  full-priced  branded  cigarettes  and  its  low-
priced  generics.  See Liggett Group, Inc. v. Brown & Wil-
liamson Tobacco Corp., 1989-1  Trade  Cas. (CCH)  68,583,
p. 61,099 (MDNC 1988).  These claims were either dismissed
on  summary judgment,  see  ibid., or  rejected  by the jury.
They were not appealed.
Liggett  also  amended  its  complaint  to  add  a  second
Robinson-Patman Act claim, which is the subject of the pres-
ent controversy.  Liggett alleged that Brown & Williamson's
volume rebates to wholesalers amounted to price discrimina-
tion that had a reasonable possibility of injuring competition,

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
in violation  of ยง2 (a).  Liggett claimed  that Brown  & Wil-
liamson's  discriminatory  volume  rebates  were  integral  to
a scheme  of predatory pricing, in which  Brown & William-
son reduced its net prices for generic cigarettes below aver-
age variable costs.  According  to Liggett, these below-cost
prices were not promotional but were intended  to pressure
it  to raise  its list prices  on generic  cigarettes,  so that  the
percentage  price  difference  between  generic  and  branded
cigarettes  would  narrow.  Liggett explained  that it  would
have been  unable  to reduce  its  wholesale  rebates  without
losing substantial market share to Brown & Williamson;  its
only choice, if it wished to avoid prolonged losses on its prin-
cipal product line, was to raise retail prices.  The resulting
reduction  in the list price  gap, it was  said, would  restrain
the  growth  of the  economy  segment  and  preserve  Brown
&  Williamson's  supracompetitive  profits  on  its  branded
cigarettes.
The trial began in the fall of 1989.  By that time, all six
cigarette  companies  had  entered  the  economy  segment.
The  economy segment was  the fastest growing segment of
the cigarette market, having increased from about 4% of the
market in  1984, when the rebate war in generics  began, to
about  15% in 1989.  Black and white generics  had declined
as  a force  in  the  economy  segment  as  consumer  interest
shifted toward branded  generics,  but Liggett's  overall vol-
ume  had  increased  steadily  to  9 billion  generic  cigarettes
sold.  Overall, the 2.8 billion generic  cigarettes sold in 1981
had become 80 billion by 1989.
The  consumer price of generics had increased  along with
output.  For a year, the list prices for generic cigarettes es-
tablished at the end of the rebate war remained stable.  But
in June 1985, Liggett raised its list price, and the other firms
followed several months later.  The precise effect of the list
price  increase  is  difficult  to assess, because  all of the cig-
arette  firms  offered  a  variety  of discounts,  coupons,  and
other promotions directly to consumers on both generic and

