555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
438  OCTOBER TERM, 2008 
Syllabus 
PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO., dba AT&T
 
CALIFORNIA, et al. v. LINKLINE COM-

MUNICATIONS, INC., et al.
 
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the ninth circuit 
No. 07–512.  Argued December 8, 2008—Decided February 25, 2009 
Petitioners (hereinafter AT&T) own infrastructure and facilities needed 
to provide “DSL” service, a method of connecting to the Internet at 
high speeds over telephone lines.  As a condition for a recent merger, 
the Federal Communications Commission requires AT&T to provide 
wholesale DSL transport service to independent ﬁrms at a price no 
greater than the retail price of AT&T’s DSL service.  The plaintiffs in 
this case, respondents here, are independent Internet service providers 
that compete with AT&T in the retail DSL market in California.  The 
plaintiffs do not own all the facilities needed to supply DSL service, and 
must lease wholesale DSL transport service from AT&T.  They ﬁled 
suit under § 2 of the Sherman Act, asserting that AT&T unlawfully 
“squeezed” their proﬁt margins by setting a high price for the wholesale 
DSL transport service it sells and a low price for its own retail DSL 
service.  This maneuver allegedly placed the plaintiffs at a competitive 
disadvantage, allowing AT&T to maintain monopoly power in the DSL 
market.  AT&T moved for judgment on the pleadings, arguing that the 
plaintiffs’ claims were foreclosed by Verizon Communications Inc. v. 
Law Ofﬁces of Curtis V. Trinko, LLP, 540 U. S. 398, 410, in which this 
Court held that a ﬁrm with no antitrust duty to deal with its rivals has 
no obligation to provide those rivals with a “sufﬁcient” level of service. 
The District Court found that AT&T had no antitrust duty to deal with 
the plaintiffs, but nonetheless denied the motion, holding that Trinko 
did not address price-squeeze claims.  The court certiﬁed its order for 
interlocutory appeal on the question whether Trinko bars price-squeeze 
claims when the parties are required to deal by federal communications 
law, but not antitrust law.  The Ninth Circuit afﬁrmed, holding that 
Trinko did not address the viability of price-squeeze claims, and thus 
the plaintiffs’ complaint stated a potentially valid § 2 claim. 
Held: 
1. The case is not moot.  The plaintiffs now agree that their claims 
must meet the Brooke Group test for predatory pricing, apparently 
apart from their price-squeeze theory.  That test established two re­
quirements for predatory pricing: below-cost retail pricing and a “ ‘dan­

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  439 
Syllabus 
gerous probability’ ” that the defendant will recoup any lost proﬁts, see 
Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 
209, 222–224.  Despite the plaintiffs’ new position, the parties continue 
to seek different relief: AT&T seeks reversal of the decision below and 
dismissal of the complaint, while the plaintiffs seek leave to amend their 
complaint to allege a Brooke Group claim.  It is also not clear that the 
plaintiffs  have  unequivocally  abandoned  their  price-squeeze  claims. 
Prudential concerns favor answering the question presented; absent a 
decision on the merits, the Circuit conﬂict that this Court granted cer­
tiorari to resolve would persist.  Pp. 446–447. 
2. A price-squeeze claim may not be brought under § 2 when the de­
fendant has no antitrust duty to deal with the plaintiff at wholesale. 
Pp. 447–457. 
(a) Businesses are generally free to choose the parties with whom 
they will deal, as well as the prices, terms, and conditions of that deal­
ing.  See United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307.  But in 
rare circumstances, a dominant ﬁrm may incur antitrust liability for 
purely unilateral conduct, such as charging “predatory” prices.  Brooke 
Group, supra, at 222–224.  There are also limited circumstances in 
which a ﬁrm’s unilateral refusal to deal with its rivals can give rise to 
antitrust liability.  See Aspen Skiing Co. v. Aspen Highlands Skiing 
Corp., 472 U. S. 585, 608–611.  Here, plaintiffs do not allege predatory 
pricing, and the District Court concluded that there was no antitrust 
duty to deal.  Plaintiffs challenge a different type of unilateral conduct 
in which a ﬁrm “squeezes” its competitors’ proﬁt margins.  This re­
quires the defendant to operate in both the wholesale (“upstream”) and 
retail (“downstream”) markets.  By raising the wholesale price of in­
puts while cutting its own retail prices, the defendant can raise competi­
tors’ costs while putting downward pressure on their revenues.  Price­
squeeze plaintiffs assert that defendants must leave them a “fair” or 
“adequate” margin between wholesale and retail prices.  Pp. 447–449. 
(b) Where there is no duty to deal at the wholesale level and no 
predatory pricing at the retail level, a ﬁrm is not required to price both 
of these services in a manner that preserves its rivals’ proﬁt margins. 
Pp. 449–452. 
(i) Any challenge to AT&T’s wholesale prices is foreclosed by a 
straightforward application of Trinko.  The claim in Trinko addressed 
the quality of Verizon’s support services, while the claims in this case 
challenge AT&T’s pricing structure.  But for antitrust purposes, there 
is no meaningful distinction between price and nonprice components of 
a transaction.  The nub of the complaint in both cases is identical—the 
plaintiffs alleged that the defendants (upstream monopolists) abused 
their power in the wholesale market to prevent rival ﬁrms from compet­

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
440  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Syllabus
 
ing effectively in the retail market.  But a ﬁrm with no antitrust duty 
to deal in the wholesale market has no obligation to deal under terms 
and conditions favorable to its competitors.  See Trinko, supra, at 410. 
Had AT&T simply stopped providing DSL transport service to the 
plaintiffs, it would not have run afoul of the Sherman Act.  Thus, it was 
not required to offer this service at the wholesale prices the plaintiffs 
would have preferred.  Pp. 449–451. 
(ii) The other component of a price-squeeze claim is the assertion 
that the defendant’s retail prices are “too low.”  Here too plaintiffs’ 
claims ﬁnd no support in existing antitrust doctrine.  “[C]utting prices 
in order to increase business often is the very essence of competition.” 
Matsushita Elec. Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S. 574, 
594.  To avoid chilling aggressive price competition, the Court has care­
fully limited the circumstances under which plaintiffs can state a Sher­
man Act claim by alleging that the defendant’s prices are too low.  See 
Brooke Group, supra, at 222–224.  The complaint at issue here has no 
allegation that AT&T’s conduct met either Brooke Group requirement. 
Recognizing a price-squeeze claim where the defendant’s retail price 
remains above cost would invite the precise harm the Court sought to 
avoid in Brooke Group: Firms might raise retail prices or refrain from 
aggressive price competition to avoid potential antitrust liability.  See 
509 U. S., at 223.  Pp. 451–452. 
(c) Institutional  concerns  also  counsel  against  recognizing  such 
claims.  This Court has repeatedly emphasized the importance of clear 
rules in antitrust law.  Recognizing price-squeeze claims would require 
courts simultaneously to police both the wholesale and retail prices to 
ensure that rival ﬁrms are not being squeezed.  Courts would be aiming 
at a moving target, since it is the interaction between these two prices 
that may result in a squeeze.  Moreover, ﬁrms seeking to avoid price­
squeeze liability will have no safe harbor for their pricing practices. 
The most commonly articulated standard for price squeezes is that the 
defendant must leave its rivals a “fair” or “adequate” margin between 
wholesale and retail prices; this test is nearly impossible for courts to 
apply without conducting complex proceedings like rate-setting agen­
cies.  Some amici argue that a price squeeze should be presumed if the 
defendant’s wholesale price exceeds its retail price.  But if both the 
wholesale price and the retail price are independently lawful, there 
is no basis for imposing antitrust liability simply because a vertically 
integrated ﬁrm’s wholesale price is greater than or equal to its retail 
price.  Pp. 452–455. 
(d) The  District  Court  on  remand  should  consider  whether  an 
amended complaint ﬁled by the plaintiffs states a claim upon which relief 
may be granted under the pleading standard articulated in Bell Atlantic 
Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U. S. 544, 561–563; whether plaintiffs should be 

