

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  267 
Opinion of the Court 
lor Isquith, J. Douglas Richards, Einer Elhauge, and Jona­
than R. Macey.  Russel H. Beatie ﬁled a brief for respond­
ent Pfeiffer.* 
Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court. 
A group of buyers of newly issued securities have ﬁled an 
antitrust lawsuit against underwriting ﬁrms that market and 
distribute those issues.  The buyers claim that the under­
writers unlawfully agreed with one another that they would 
not sell shares of a popular new issue to a buyer unless that 
buyer committed (1) to buy additional shares of that security 
later  at  escalating  prices  (a  practice  called  “laddering”), 
(2) to pay unusually high commissions on subsequent secu­
rity  purchases  from  the  underwriters,  or  (3)  to  purchase 
from the underwriters other less desirable securities (a prac­
tice  called  “tying”).  The  question  before  us  is  whether 
there  is  a  “ ‘plain  repugnancy’ ”  between  these  antitrust 
claims and the federal securities law.  See Gordon v.  New 
York Stock Exchange, Inc., 422 U. S. 659, 682 (1975) (quoting 
United States v. Philadelphia Nat. Bank, 374 U. S. 321, 350– 
351 (1963)).  We conclude that there is.  Consequently we 
must interpret the securities laws as implicitly precluding 
the application of the antitrust laws to the conduct alleged 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the National Asso­
ciation of Securities Dealers, Inc., by Theodore B. Olson, F. Joseph Warin, 
Douglas R. Cox, and Amir C. Tayrani; for NYSE Group, Inc., by Jay N. 
Fastow; for the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
et al. by Roy T. Englert, Jr., Gary A. Orseck, Robin S. Conrad, Amar D. 
Sarwal, and Robert H. Bork; for the Washington Legal Foundation by 
James A. Meyers, Garret G. Rasmussen, Daniel J. Popeo, and Richard A. 
Samp; and for W. R. Hambrecht + Co., LLC, by Paul Michael Kaplan. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the State of New 
York by Andrew M. Cuomo, Attorney General, Barbara D. Underwood, 
Solicitor General, Daniel Smirlock, Deputy Solicitor General, Andrew D. 
Bing, Assistant Solicitor General, Richard E. Grimm, and Sarah M. Hub­
bard, Assistant Attorney General; and for the American Antitrust Insti­
tute by Joseph Goldberg and Daniel E. Gustafson. 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
268  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
in this case.  See 422 U. S., at 682, 689, 691; see also United 
States v. National Assn. of Securities Dealers, Inc., 422 U. S. 
694 (1975) (NASD); Silver v. New York Stock Exchange, 373 
U. S. 341 (1963). 
I
 
A
 
The underwriting practices at issue take place during the 
course of an initial public offering (IPO) of shares in a com­
pany.  An IPO presents an opportunity to raise capital for a 
new enterprise by selling shares to the investing public.  A 
group of underwriters will typically form a syndicate to help 
market the shares.  The syndicate will investigate and esti­
mate likely market demand for the shares at various prices. 
It will then recommend to the ﬁrm a price and the number 
of shares it believes the ﬁrm should offer.  Ultimately, the 
syndicate will promise to buy from the ﬁrm all the newly 
issued  shares  on  a  speciﬁed  date  at  a  ﬁxed,  agreed-upon 
price, which price the syndicate will then charge investors 
when it resells the shares.  When the syndicate buys the 
shares from the issuing ﬁrm, however, the ﬁrm gives the 
syndicate a price discount, which amounts to the syndicate’s 
commission.  See generally L. Loss & J. Seligman, Funda­
mentals of Securities Regulation 66–72 (4th ed. 2001). 
At the heart of the syndicate’s IPO marketing activity lie 
its efforts to determine suitable initial share prices and quan­
tities.  At ﬁrst, the syndicate makes a preliminary estimate 
that it submits in a registration statement to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC).  It then conducts a “road 
show” during which syndicate underwriters and representa­
tives of the offering ﬁrm meet potential investors and engage 
in a process that the industry calls “bookbuilding.”  During 
this time, the underwriters and ﬁrm representatives present 
information to investors about the company and the stock. 
And they attempt to gauge the strength of the investors’ 
interest in purchasing the stock.  For this purpose, under­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  269 
Opinion of the Court 
writers  might  well  ask  the  investors  how  their  interest 
would vary depending upon price and the number of shares 
that  are  offered.  They  will  learn,  among  other  things, 
which  investors  might  buy  shares,  in  what  quantities,  at 
what prices, and for how long each is likely to hold purchased 
shares before selling them to others. 
On the basis of this kind of information, the members of 
the  underwriting  syndicate  work  out  ﬁnal  arrangements 
with the issuing ﬁrm, ﬁxing the price per share and specify­
ing the number of shares for which the underwriters will be 
jointly  responsible.  As  we  have  said,  after  buying  the 
shares at a discounted price, the syndicate resells the shares 
to investors at the ﬁxed price, in effect earning its commis­
sion in the process. 
B 
In January 2002, respondents, a group of 60 investors, ﬁled 
two  antitrust  class-action  lawsuits  against  petitioners,  10 
leading investment banks.  They sought relief under § 1 of 
the  Sherman  Act,  ch.  647,  26  Stat.  209,  as  amended,  15 
U. S. C. § 1; § 2(c) of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, as amended 
by  the  Robinson-Patman  Act,  49  Stat.  1527,  15  U. S. C. 
§ 13(c); and state antitrust laws.  App. 1, 14.  The investors 
stated  that  between  March  1997  and  December  2000  the 
banks had acted as underwriters, forming syndicates that 
helped  execute  the  IPOs  of  several  hundred  technology­
related companies.  Id., at 22.  Respondents’ antitrust com­
plaints allege that the underwriters “abused the . . . practice 
of  combining  into  underwriting  syndicates”  by  agreeing 
among themselves to impose harmful conditions upon poten­
tial investors—conditions that the investors apparently were 
willing  to accept  in  order  to  obtain  an  allocation  of  new 
shares that were in high demand.  Id., at 12. 
These conditions, according to respondents, consist of a re­
quirement that the investors pay “additional anticompetitive 
charges” over and above the agreed-upon IPO share price 
plus  underwriting  commission.  In  particular,  these  addi­

