

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
The one case in which we have found an activity to con-
stitute  a  "boycott"  within  the meaning  of the  McCarran-
Ferguson Act is St. Paul Fire & Marine Jins. Co. v. Barry,
438 U. S. 531 (1978).  There the plaintiffs were licensed phy-
sicians and their patients, and the defendant (St. Paul) was a
malpractice insurer that had refused to renew the physicians'
policies on an "occurrence" basis, but insisted upon a "claims
made" basis.  The allegation was that, at the instance of St.
Paul, the three other malpractice  insurers in the State had
collectively refused to write insurance for St. Paul's custom-
ers, thus  forcing them  to accept  St. Paul's renewal  terms.
Unsurprisingly, we held  the allegation  sufficient to state a
cause of action.  The  insisted-upon condition of the boycott
(not being a former St. Paul policyholder) was "artificial": it
bore no  relationship  (or an  "artificial"  relationship)  to the
proposed  contracts  of insurance  that the physicians wished
to conclude with St. Paul's competitors.
Under the standard  described, it is obviously not a "boy-
cott" for  the reinsurers  to  "refus[e]  to reinsure  coverages
written  on  the  ISO  CGL  forms until  the desired  changes
were made," ante, at 788, because the terms of the primary
coverages are central elements of the reinsurance contract-
they are what is reinsured.  See App. 16-17 (Cal. Complaint
26-27).  The  "primary policies are  . . . the basis  of the
losses that are shared in the reinsurance agreements."  1 B.
Webb, H. Anderson, J. Cookman, & P. Kensicki, Principles of
Reinsurance 87 (1990); see also id., at 55; Gtrley, Regulation
of Reinsurance in the United States, 19 Forum 72, 73 (1983).
Indeed,  reinsurance  is  so  closely  tied  to the  terms  of the
primary  insurance  contract  that  one  of the two  categories
of reinsurance  (assumption reinsurance)  substitutes  the re-
insurer for the primary or "ceding"  insurer and places  the
reinsurer into contractual privity with the primary insurer's
policyholders.  See  id., at 73-74;  Colonial American Life
Ins.  Co.  v.  Commissioner, 491  U. S.  244,  247  (1989);  B.
Ostrager  & T. Newman,  Handbook  on Insurance  Coverage

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
Disputes chs.  15-16  (5th ed.  1992).  And in the other cate-
gory  of  reinsurance  (indemnity  reinsurance),  either  the
terms of the underlying insurance policy are incorporated by
reference  (if the reinsurance  is written under a facultative
agreement),  see  J. Butler  & R.  Merkin,  Reinsurance  Law
B.1.1-04 (1992);  R. Carter, Reinsurance 235 (1979),  or (if the
reinsurance is conducted on a treaty basis) the reinsurer will
require full disclosure  of the terms of the underlying  insur-
ance  policies  and usually  require  that the primary insurer
not  vary  those  terms  without  prior  approval,  see  id.,  at
256, 297.
JUSTICE SOUTER simply disregards this integral relation-
ship between  the terms of the primary insurance form  and
the contract of reinsurance.  He describes the reinsurers as
"individuals and entities who were not members of ISO, and
who would not ordinarily be parties to an agreement setting
the terms of primary insurance, not being in the business of
selling it."  Ante, at 788.  While this factual assumption is
crucial  to JUSTICE  SOUTER's  reasoning  (because  otherwise
he would not be able  to distinguish permissible  agreements
among primary insurers), he offers no support for the state-
ment.  But even if it happens to be true, he does not explain
why it must be true-that is, why the law must exclude rein-
surers from full membership  and participation.  The reali-
ties of the industry may make explanation difficult:
"Reinsurers also benefit from the services by ISO and
other rating or service organizations.  The  underlying
rates and policy forms are the basis for many reinsur-
ance contracts.  Reinsurers may also subscribe to vari-
ous services.  For example, a facultative reinsurer may
subscribe  to the rating  service,  so that they  have the
rating manuals available, or purchase optional services,
such as  a sprinkler report for a specific  property loca-
tion."  2 R. Reinarz, J. Schloss, G. Patrik, & P. Kensicki,
Reinsurance Practices  18 (1990).

NEW PAGE

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE SOUTER also describes reinsurers as being "out-
side the primary insurance industry."  Ante, at 789.  That
is technically true (to the extent the two symbiotic industries
can  be  separated)  but  quite  irrelevant.  What  matters  is
that the scope and predictability  of the risks assumed  in a
reinsurance  contract depend entirely upon the terms of the
primary policies  that are reinsured.  The terms  of the pri-
mary  policies  are  the "subject-matter insured"  by reinsur-
ance,  Carter,  supra, at  4,  so  that  to  insist upon  certain
primary-insurance  terms  as  a  condition  of  writing  rein-
surance  is in no way "artificial"; and hence for a number  of
reinsurers  to  insist  upon  such  terms jointly  is in  no  way
a "boycott."6
JUSTICE SOUTER seems to believe that a nonboycott is con-
verted into a boycott by the fact that it occurs "at the behest
of,"  ante, at  789,  or is  "solicited"  by, ibid., competitors  of
the target.  He purports to find support for this implausible
proposition in  United States v. South-Eastern Underwriters
Assn., 322 U. S. 533 (1944), which involved a classic boycott,
by primary insurers, of competitors who refused to join their
price-fixing conspiracy, the South-Eastern Underwriters As-
sociation (S. E. U. A.).  The conspirators would not deal with
independent  agents  who  wrote  for  such  companies,  and
would  not  write  policies  for  customers  who  insured  with
them.  See id., at 535-536.  Moreover, Justice Black's opin-
ion for the Court noted  cryptically, "[c]ompanies  not mem-
bers of S. E. U. A. were cut off from the opportunity to rein-
sure their risks."  Id., at 535.  JUSTICE SOUTER speculates
6 Once it is determined that the actions of the reinsurers did not consti-
tute a "boycott,"  but rather a concerted agreement to terms, it follows
that their actions do not constitute "coercion" or "intimidation" within the
meaning of the statute.  That is because, as previously mentioned, such
concerted agreements do "not coerc[e] anyone, at least in the usual sense
of that word," L. Sullivan, Law of Antitrust 257 (1977), and because they
are precisely what is protected by McCarran-Ferguson  immunity.

