OCTOBER TERM, 1992
Syllabus
SPECTRUM  SPORTS,  INC., ET  AL.  v.  McQUILLAN
ET VIR,  DBA  SORBOTURF  ENTERPRISES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 91-10.  Argued November 10, 1992-Decided January 25, 1993
Shortly after the manufacturer of sorbothane-a patented elastic polymer
with shock-absorbing  characteristics-informed  respondents,  distribu-
tors of medical, athletic, and equestrian products made with sorbothane,
that it would  no longer sell  them the  polymer, petitioner  Spectrum
Sports, Inc., became the national distributor of sorbothane athletic prod-
ucts.  Respondents' business failed, and  they filed suit in the District
Court against petitioners and others, seeking damages for alleged viola-
tions of, inter alia, § 2 of the Sherman Act, which makes it an offense
for any person to "monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or
conspire ...  to monopolize any part of the trade  or commerce among
the several States."  A jury found that the defendants  violated §2 by,
in the words of the verdict sheet, "monopolizing, attempting to monopo-
lize, and/or conspiring to monopolize."  The Court of Appeals affirmed,
noting that, although the jury had not specified which of the three possi-
ble § 2 violations had occurred, the verdict stood because the evidence
established a case of attempted monopolization.  Relying on its earlier
rulings in Lessig v. Tidewater Oil Co., 327 F. 2d 459, and its progeny,
the court held that the jury could have inferred two of the elements of
that offense-a specific intent to achieve monopoly power and a danger-
ous probability of monopolization of a relevant market-from evidence
showing the defendants' unfair or predatory conduct, without any proof
of relevant market or the defendants' market power, and that the jury
was properly instructed that it could make such inferences.
Held: Petitioners  may not be  liable for attempted  monopolization under
§ 2 absent proof of a dangerous probability that they would monopolize
a relevant market and specific intent to monopolize.  The conduct of a
single firm, governed by § 2, is unlawful "only when it threatens actual
monopolization."  Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp., 467
U. S. 752, 767.  Consistent with this approach, Courts of Appeals other
than the court below have generally required a plaintiff in an attempted
monopolization case to prove that (1) the defendant has engaged in pred-
atory or anticompetitive conduct with (2) a specific intent to monopolize
and (3) a dangerous probability of achieving monopoly power.  Unfair
or predatory conduct may be sufficient to prove the necessary intent to

NEW PAGE

SPECTRUM SPORTS, INC. v. McQUILLAN
Opinion of the Court
monopolize.  However, intent alone is insufficient to establish the dan-
gerous  probability of success, Swift & Co. v.  United States, 196 U. S.
375,  402,  which requires  inquiry  into  the relevant  product  and geo-
graphic  market  and  the defendant's  economic  power  in that market.
There  is little if any  support  in the statute or case law  for Lessig's
contrary  interpretation of §2.  Moreover, Lessig and its progeny are
inconsistent  with the Sherman Act's  purpose of protecting the  public
from the failure of the market.  The law directs itself only against con-
duct that unfairly tends to destroy competition, and, thus, courts have
been careful to avoid constructions of § 2 which might chill competition
rather than foster it.  The concern that § 2 might be applied so as to
further  anticompetitive  ends  is  plainly  not  met  by  inquiring  only
whether the defendant has engaged in "unfair" or "predatory" tactics.
Since the jury's instructions and the Court of Appeals' affirmance both
misconstrued § 2, and since the jury's verdict did not negate the possibil-
ity that it rested on the attempt to monopolize ground alone, the case is
remanded for further proceedings.  Pp. 454-460.
907 F. 2d 154, reversed and remanded.
WHITE, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.
James  D.  Vail  argued  the  cause  and  filed  briefs  for
petitioners.
Robert A.  Long, Jr., argued  the  cause  for  the  United
States as amicus curiae in support of petitioners.  With him
on the brief were Solicitor General Starr, Acting Assistant
Attorney GeneralJ ames, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace,
and Catherine G. O'Sullivan.
Jeffrey  M.  Shohet  argued  the  cause  for  respondents.
With him on the brief was Marcelle E. Mihaila.
JUSTICE WHITE  delivered  the opinion of the Court.
Section 2 of the Sherman  Act, 26  Stat. 209, as amended,
15 U. S. C. § 2, makes it an offense for any person to "monopo-
lize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine  or conspire with
any other person  or persons, to monopolize any part of the
trade or  commerce  among  the several  States  . . . ."  The
jury in this case returned a verdict finding that petitioners
had monopolized, attempted to monopolize, and/or conspired
to monopolize.  The District Court entered a judgment rul-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 506 U. S. 447 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
ing that petitioners had  violated  § 2, and  the Court of Ap-
peals affirmed on the ground that petitioners had attempted
to monopolize.  The issue we have before us is whether the
District  Court and  the Court of Appeals  correctly  defined
the elements of that offense.
Sorbothane  is  a  patented  elastic  polymer  whose  shock-
absorbing characteristics make it useful in a variety of medi-
cal,  athletic,  and  equestrian  products.  BTR,  Inc.  (BTR),
owns the patent rights to sorbothane, and its wholly owned
subsidiaries  manufacture  the product  in  the United  States
and Britain.  Hamilton-Kent  Manufacturing  Company
(Hamilton-Kent) and Sorbothane, Inc. (S. I.), were at all rele-
vant times owned by BTR.  S. I. was formed in 1982 to take
over Hamilton-Kent's sorbothane business.'  App. to Pet. for
Cert. A3.  Respondents Shirley and Larry McQuillan, doing
business  as  Sorboturf Enterprises, were  regional distribu-
tors  of sorbothane  products from  1981  to  1983.  Petitioner
Spectrum Sports, Inc. (Spectrum), was also a distributor of
sorbothane  products.  Petitioner Kenneth  B. Leighton, Jr.,
is a co-owner of Spectrum.  Ibid.  Kenneth Leighton, Jr., is
the son of Kenneth Leighton, Sr., the president of Hamilton-
Kent and S. I. at all relevant times.
In 1980, respondents  Shirley and Larry McQuillan  signed
a letter of intent with Hamilton-Kent, which then owned all
manufacturing  and  distribution  rights to sorbothane.  The
letter of intent granted  the McQuillans  exclusive  rights to
purchase sorbothane foruse in equestrian products.  Respond-
ents were designing a horseshoe pad using sorbothane.
In  1981, Hamilton-Kent  decided  to establish five regional
distributorships for sorbothane.  Respondents were selected
to be distributors of all sorbothane products, including medi-
cal products and shoe inserts, in the Southwest.  Spectrum
I Sorbothane, Inc., was formerly called Sorbo, Inc.  App. 67.

