

Cite as: 539 U. S. 23 (2003)
Opinion of the Court
thor,"  § 106A(d)(1).  Recognizing in § 43(a) a cause of action
for misrepresentation of authorship of noncopyrighted works
(visual or otherwise) would  render these limitations  super-
fluous.  A  statutory  interpretation  that  renders  another
statute superfluous is of course to be avoided.  E. g., Mackey
v. Lanier Collection Agency & Service, Inc., 486 U. S. 825,
837, and n. 11 (1988).
Reading  "origin"  in  §43(a) to  require  attribution of un-
copyrighted materials would pose serious practical problems.
Without a copyrighted work as the basepoint, the word "ori-
gin" has  no  discernable  limits.  A  video  of the  MGM  film
Carmen  Jones,  after its copyright  has expired, would pre-
sumably require  attribution not just to MGM,  but to Oscar
Hammerstein  II  (who wrote the musical on  which the film
was based), to Georges Bizet (who wrote the opera on which
the musical was based), and to Prosper M6rim6e (who wrote
the novel  on which the opera was based).  In many cases,
figuring out who is in the line of "origin" would be no simple
task.  Indeed,  in the present case  it  is far from  clear that
respondents have that status.  Neither SFM nor New Line
had anything to do with the production of the Crusade televi-
sion  series-they  merely  were  licensed  to  distribute  the
video  version.  While Fox might have a claim  to being  in
the line of origin,  its involvement with  the creation  of the
television  series was  limited  at best.  Time,  Inc.,  was  the
principal, if not the exclusive, creator, albeit under arrange-
ment with Fox.  And of course it was neither Fox nor Time,
Inc., that shot the film used in the Crusade television series.
Rather, that footage  came  from  the  United  States  Army,
Navy, and Coast Guard, the British Ministry of Information
and War Office, the National Film Board of Canada, and un-
identified  "Newsreel  Pool  Cameramen."  If anyone  has  a
claim to being the original creator of the material used in
both the Crusade television series and the Campaigns video-
tapes, it would be those groups, rather than Fox.  We do not

NEW PAGE

36  DASTAR  CORP. v. TWENTIETH  CENTURY  FOX
FILM  CORP.
Opinion of the Court
think the Lanham Act requires this search for the source of
the Nile and all its tributaries.
Another practical difficulty of adopting a special definition
of "origin" for communicative  products is that it places  the
manufacturers  of those products in a difficult position.  On
the one hand, they would face Lanham Act liability for fail-
ing to  credit the  creator  of a  work  on which  their  lawful
copies are based; and on the other hand they could face Lan-
ham Act liability for crediting the creator if that should be
regarded as implying the creator's "sponsorship or approval"
of the copy, 15 U. S. C. § 1125(a)(1)(A).  In this case, for ex-
ample, if Dastar had simply "copied  [the television series] as
Crusade in Europe and sold it as Crusade in Europe," with-
out changing  the title or packaging  (including the original
credits to Fox), it is hard to have confidence in respondents'
assurance  that they "would not be here  on  a Lanham  Act
cause of action," Tr. of Oral Arg. 35.
Finally, reading  § 43(a)  of the  Lanham Act  as creating a
cause  of action for, in effect,  plagiarism-the  use  of other-
wise  unprotected  works  and  inventions  without  attribu-
tion-would be hard to reconcile with our previous decisions.
For example, in  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Samara Brothers,
Inc., 529  U. S.  205  (2000),  we considered  whether product-
design trade dress can ever be inherently distinctive.  Wal-
Mart produced "knockoffs" of children's clothes designed and
manufactured  by Samara  Brothers,  containing  only "minor
modifications" of the original designs.  Id., at 208.  We con-
cluded that the designs could not be protected under § 43(a)
without a showing that they had acquired "secondary mean-
ing,"  id., at 214,  so  that they "'identify  the  source of the
product rather than the product itself,"' id., at 211 (quoting
Inwood Laboratories, Inc. v.  Ives Laboratories, Inc., 456
U. S. 844, 851,  n. 11  (1982)).  This carefully considered limi-
tation would be entirely pointless if the "original" producer
could  turn  around  and  pursue  a  reverse-passing-off  claim
under exactly the same provision  of the Lanham Act.  Sa-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 539 U. S. 23 (2003)
Opinion of the Court
mara would merely have had to argue that it was the "ori-
gin" of the designs that Wal-Mart was selling as its own line.
It was not, because "origin of goods" in the Lanham Act re-
ferred to the producer of the clothes, and not the producer
of the (potentially) copyrightable  or patentable designs that
the clothes embodied.
Similarly under respondents' theory, the "origin of goods"
provision  of § 43(a) would  have  supported the suit that we
rejected in Bonito Boats, 489 U. S.  141,  where the defend-
ants had  used  molds to duplicate the plaintiff's unpatented
boat hulls (apparently without crediting the plaintiff).  And
it  would have  supported  the  suit  we rejected  in  TrafFix,
532  U. S.  23:  The plaintiff, whose  patents  on  flexible  road
signs had expired, and who could not prevail on a trade-dress
claim under  §4 3(a)  because  the features  of the signs were
functional,  would have  had  a reverse-passing-off  claim  for
unattributed copying of his design.
In sum, reading the phrase "origin of goods" in the Lan-
ham  Act in  accordance  with the Act's common-law  founda-
tions (which were not designed to protect originality or cre-
ativity), and in light of the copyright and patent laws (which
were), we conclude  that the phrase  refers to the producer
of the tangible  goods  that are offered  for  sale, and not  to
the author of any idea, concept, or communication embodied
in those goods.  Cf. 17 U. S. C. § 202 (distinguishing between
a  copyrighted  work and  "any material object in which  the
work  is embodied").  To  hold  otherwise  would  be  akin  to
finding that § 43(a) created a species of perpetual patent and
copyright, which  Congress may not do.  See Eldred v. Ash-
croft, 537 U. S. 186, 208 (2003).
The  creative  talent of the sort that lay behind  the Cam-
paigns  videos is  not left without protection.  The  original
film footage used in the Crusade television series could have
been  copyrighted,  see  17  U. S. C.  § 102(a)(6),  as  was  copy-
righted (as a compilation) the Crusade television series, even
though  it  included  material  from  the  public  domain,  see

