

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
WHITE, J., dissenting
Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467  U. S.
837, 843 (1984); Pauley v. BethEnergy Mines, Inc., 501 U. S.
680, 696-697  (1991).  I have no  quarrel  with that  general
proposition.  I do, however, object to its invocation to justify
the majority's deference, not to an agency interpretation of
a statute, but to the post hoc rationalization of Government
lawyers  attempting to explain  a  gap in  the reasoning  and
factfinding of the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC or
Commission).  Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States,
Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co.,  463 U. S. 29,
50 (1983).
Section 402(d) of the RPSA, codified at 45 U. S. C. ยง 562(d),
provides  that Amtrak  may  apply  to the  ICC  for an  order
directing  the conveyance  of another  railroad's  property  if
Amtrak can meet two conditions: Amtrak and the other rail-
road must be unable to agree upon terms for sale of the prop-
erty, and  the property  must be  "required for intercity rail
passenger service."  If these conditions  are met, "the need
of [Amtrak]  for the property  shall be  deemed  to be  estab-
lished," and the other railroad will be able to retain its prop-
erty only if it can rebut the strong presumption of Amtrak's
need.  Ibid.
Because conferring upon Amtrak the presumption of need
will determine the outcome of most disputes under this sec-
tion, the two conditions  that Amtrak  must establish to re-
ceive  the benefit of the presumption  assume particular im-
portance.  However, in the present case, the ICC failed  to
address one of these factors.  Although the Commission de-
termined that the parties had been unable to come to terms
for sale of the disputed property, see App. to Pet. for Cert.
in  No.  90-1419,  pp.  130a-131a,  it neither  interpreted  nor
applied the second condition, that the property be "required
rangement between Amtrak and the Central Vermont Railroad.  Legisla-
tion passed while this case was pending before the Court of Appeals makes
it clear that such transactions are permissible.  Independent Safety Board
Act Amendments of 1990 ยง 9(a), Pub. L. 101-641, 104 Stat. 4658.

NEW PAGE

426  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
WHITE, J., dissenting
for intercity rail passenger service."  Instead, after reject-
ing respondent Boston & Maine Corporation's argument that
Amtrak could restore Montrealer service by obtaining track-
age rights or an  easement,  the ICC simply concluded  that
"Amtrak has demonstrated sufficient reason to justify acqui-
sition of ownership of the line."  Id., at 43a.
The majority acknowledges that "the ICC's opinion is not
explicit in all of its details," see ante, at 418, but nevertheless
concludes  that  the  Commission's  reading- of the  statute  is
entitled to deference because it "gave effect to the statutory
presumption of Amtrak's need for the track, and in so doing
implemented  and interpreted  the statute  in a manner  that
comports  with  its  words  and  structure."  Ibid.  But  this
begs  the question  of what  showing Amtrak  must make  to
establish that the track is  "required"  so that Amtrak  may
therefore obtain the benefit of the presumption of need.
The simple fact is that the ICC never addressed this point,
and therefore failed to construe a key portion of the statute.
The  omission is particularly  significant  because  this is  the
first action  treating  Amtrak's  condemnation  powers under
ยง 402(d) of the Act; it will guide future adjudications.
Rather  than  acknowledging  the  ICC's  omission  and  re-
manding for clarification and factfinding, the majority relies
on  the Government's  argument that  the  Commission  must
have interpreted the word "required" as meaning "useful or
appropriate."  Ibid.  But this interpretation was not devel-
oped by the ICC during its administrative proceedings.  In-
deed,  the  explanation  was  not even  proposed  in the  Com-
mission's  argument  to  the  Court  of Appeals.2  This  ICC
2This  is how  the Commission  framed  its argument  to the  Court  of
Appeals:
"Under  Chevron [U S. A  Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council,
Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984)],  the Commission had broad discretion to inter-
pret RPSA in this proceeding.  This is certainly true with regard to the
central issu[e] of determining ...  what must be shown to justify a taking
under section 402(d)  ....  As to [this] issue, the statute merely states
that Amtrak's need for the property will be presumed unless the transfer
will significantly impair the ability of the carrier to carry out its common

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
WHITE, J., dissenting
definition of "required" debuted  in the Commission's  briefs
before this Court.  It is nothing more than a creation of ap-
pellate counsel, concocted to fill the gaps in the Commission's
analysis.  "The short-and  sufficient-answer  to [this] sub-
mission is that the courts may not accept appellate  counsel's
post hoc rationalizations  for agency  action.  . . .It is  well
established that an agency's  action must be upheld, if at all,
on the basis articulated by the agency itself."  Motor Vehi-
cle Mfrs. Assn., supra, at 50 (emphasis  added), citing Bur-
lington Truck Lines, Inc. v. United States, 371 U. S. 156, 168
(1962);  SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U. S. 194, 196-197 (1947);
American Textile Mfrs. Institute, Inc. v. Donovan, 452 U. S.
490, 539 (1981).  Therefore, the majority is simply wrong in
asserting  that, even  though  "the  ICC  did  not in  so  many
words articulate its interpretation of the word  'required,"'
the Court may nevertheless defer to the Commission's deci-
sion.  See ante, at 420 (emphasis added).
Because of the gap in the ICC's interpretation of the stat-
ute, "[t]here  are no findings and  no analysis here to justify
the choice made, no indication of the basis on which the Com-
mission exercised its expert discretion."  Burlington Truck
Lines, Inc., supra, at  167.  The  majority  concludes,  again
based  on the  agency's presumed  interpretation of the stat-
ute, that the Commission was not obligated to make specific
findings as to whether the property was "'required  for inter-
city rail passenger service."'  See ante, at 420.  This mag-
nifies  the  ICC's  mistake;  an  administrative  "agency  must
make findings  that support  its decision,  and those findings
must be  supported  by  substantial  evidence."  Burlington
Truck Lines, Inc., 371 U. S., at 168.
Deferring to a federal agency's  construction of the legisla-
tion that it is charged with administering is one thing.  But
deferring  to inferences  derived  from reading  between  the
lines  of an  agency  decision  or excerpted  from  the brief of
carrier obligations and Amtrak's needs can be met with alternative prop-
erty."  Joint Brief for Respondents in No. 88-1631 (CADC), pp. 15-16.

