

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R. CO.  v.  U. S.  185
173  Opinion of the Court.
mission carefully  "weighed"  and considered "each  appli-
cation" in its labors td determine which, if either, of them
was "consistent with the public interest."  Its subsidiary
findings  (a)  that the  Minneapolis  plan  "unequivocally
contemplates  the  disappearance  of  the  Western  as  an
independent and neutral connection  for the other 15 car-
riers  with  which  it presently  works,"  (b)  that certain
features  of  the  Minneapolis  plan  "would  be extremely
harmful to other carriers,"  (c)  that the Minneapolis plan
contemplates the elimination  of Western's office and the
separation of its employees, and  (d)  that numerous wit-
nesses insisted "that the separate and independent opera-
tion of the Western under its present local management is
a public necessity,"  fully support its conclusional finding
that  the  "[p]ublic  interest  demands  that  the  present
policies  of  the  Western  in  all  respects  be  continued."-
That finding, though antithetic to Minneapolis'  applica-
tion,  did  not deprive  it of  "fair  comparative  considera-
tion,"  but, on the contrary, it seems to us, was made by
the Commission after full and fair consideration,  and the
District Court did not err in so holding.
Appellants'  principal  contention  appears  to  be  that
acquisition of control of Western by Santa Fe and Penn-
sylvania will  create  a combination  in  restraint of  com-
merce  in violation  of  § 1 of the Sherman'Act  "oa nd will
lessen competition  or tend to create a monopoly in viola-
tion of § 7 of the Clayton Act,11 and that the Commission's
approval of their application was an abuse of power.  ,
On  their face  these contentions  would  seem to run in
the teeth of the language  and purpose of  § 5 (11)  of the
Interstate  Commerce  Act.  That  section,  in  substance,
provides  that  "The authority conferred  by  this  section
shall be -exclusive and plenary, and any .carrier or corpora-
15 U. S. C. § 1, 26 Stat. 209
10 
"15  U. S. C. § 18, 38 Stat. 731.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion  of the Court.  361 U. S.
tion  participating  in  .. .any  transaction  approved  by
the Commission thereunder, shall have full power  ...to
carry such transaction into effect and to own and operate
any  properties  and  exercise  any  control  or  franchises
acquired  through  said  transaction  . . . and  any  car-
riers  . . . participating  in  a  transaction  approved  or
authorized  under  the provisions  of this section  shall  be
and  they are  hereby relieved from  the  operation  of the
antitrust laws and of all other restraints, limitations, and
prohibitions  of law  ...insofar  as may be necessary  to
enable [it] to carry into effect the transaction so approved
or provided  for in accordance  with the terms and condi-
tions, if any, imposed by the Commission,  and to  hold,
maintain,  and  operate  any  properties  and  exercise  any
control or franchises  acquired through such transaction."
24  Stat.  380,  as  amended,  54  Stat.  908,  49  U.  S.  C.
§5,( 11).
Section 5 (11)  is both a  more recent and a more spe-
cific  expression  of  congressional  policy  than  § 1 of the
Sherman  Act  and § 7 of  the Clayton  Act,  and in  terms
relieves the acquiring carrier, upon approval by the Com-
mission of the acquisition, "from the operation of the anti-
trust laws  .. . ."  Although § 5 (11)  does not authorize
the Commission  to "ignore"  the antitrust laws, McLean
Trucking Co. v. United States, 321 U. S.6 7, 80, there can
be  "little doubt  that the Commission  is not to measure
proposals for. [acquisitions]  by the standards of the anti-
trust laws."  321 U. S., at 85-86.  The problem is one of
accommodation  of  § 5 (2)  anq  the  antitrust legislation.
The Comission remains obligated to "estimate the scope
and appraise the effects of the curtailment of competition
which will result from the proposed [acquisition]  and con-
sider them along with the advantages of improved service
[and other matters in  the public  interest]  to determine
whether  the  [acquisition]  will assist in  effectuating  the
over-all transportation  policy."  321 U. S., at 87.

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST. LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  187
173  Opinion of  the  Court.
Even though such acquisitions might otherwise violate
the antitrust laws, Congress has authorized the Commis-
sion  to approve  them, if it finds  they are  in the public
interest, "because it recognized that in some circumstances
they  were  appropriate  for  effectuation  of  the  national
transportation  policy.  It  was informed  that this policy
would be  furthered by 'encouraging  the organization  of
stronger units' in the ....  industry.  And in authorizing
those  [acquisitions]  it did not import the general policies
of the anti-trust laws as a measure of their permissibility.
It  in terms relieved participants in appropriate  [acquisi-
tions]  from the requirements  of  those  laws.  § 5 (11)."
321 U. S., at 85.  It  must be presumed that, in  enacting
this legislation,  Congress  took  account  of  the  fact  that
railroads are subject to strict regulation  and supervision.
"Against  this background,  no other inference is  possible
but  that, as  a  factor  in  determining  the  propriety  of
[railroad  acquisitions]  '.he  preservation  of  competition
among carriers, although still a value, is significant chiefly
as  it  aids  in  the  attainment  of  the  objectives  of  the
national transportation policy."  321 U. S.,  at 85-86.
As respects railroad acquisitions, the Coinmission is not
so bound by the antitrust laws that it must permit them
to overbear  what it finds  to be in  "the  public  interest."
A contrary view would, in effect, permit the (innhi:ionl
to  authorize  only  those  acquisitions  which  would  not
offend  those laws.  "As has been said, this would render
meaningless  the exemption  relieving the partieipant  in  ".
properly approved  [acquisition]  of  the  requircmoeifs  of
those laws  . . . ."  321  U. S., at 86.  Resolution  of the
conflicting  considerations  "is  a  complex  task  which
requires extensive facilities, expert judgment and consid-
erable knowledge  of  the  transportation  industry.  Con-
gress left that task to the Commission  'to the end that the
wisdom and experience  of that Commission  may be  used
not Only in connection  with this form of transportation,

