551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
OCTOBER TERM, 2006  877 
Syllabus 
LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC., dba KAY’S KLOSET . . . KAY’S S  HOES  
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the fifth circuit 
No. 06–480.  Argued March 26, 2007—Decided June 28, 2007 
Given its policy of refusing to sell to retailers that discount its goods below 
suggested prices, petitioner (Leegin) stopped selling to respondent’s 
(PSKS) store.  PSKS ﬁled suit, alleging, inter alia, that Leegin vio­
lated the antitrust laws by entering into vertical agreements with its 
retailers to set minimum resale prices.  The District Court excluded 
expert testimony about Leegin’s pricing policy’s procompetitive effects 
on the ground that Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 
220 U. S. 373, makes it per se illegal under § 1 of the Sherman Act for a 
manufacturer and its distributor to agree on the minimum price the 
distributor can charge for the manufacturer’s goods.  At trial, PSKS 
alleged that Leegin and its retailers had agreed to ﬁx prices, but Leegin 
argued that its pricing policy was lawful under § 1.  The jury found for 
PSKS.  On appeal, the Fifth Circuit declined to apply the rule of reason 
to Leegin’s vertical price-ﬁxing agreements and afﬁrmed, ﬁnding that 
Dr. Miles’ per se rule rendered irrelevant any procompetitive justiﬁca­
tions for Leegin’s policy. 
Held: Dr. Miles is overruled, and vertical price restraints are to be judged 
by the rule of reason.  Pp. 885–908. 
(a) The accepted standard for testing whether a practice restrains 
trade in violation of § 1 is the rule of reason, which requires the fact­
ﬁnder to weigh “all of the circumstances,” Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE 
Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 49, including “speciﬁc information about the 
relevant business” and “the restraint’s history, nature, and effect,” State 
Oil Co. v. Khan, 522 U. S. 3, 10.  The rule distinguishes between re­
straints with anticompetitive effect that are harmful to the consumer 
and those with procompetitive effect that are in the consumer’s best 
interest.  However, when a restraint is deemed “unlawful per se,” ibid., 
the need to study an individual restraint’s reasonableness in light of 
real market forces is eliminated, Business Electronics Corp. v. Sharp 
Electronics Corp., 485 U. S. 717, 723.  Resort to per se rules is conﬁned 
to restraints “that would always or almost always tend to restrict com­
petition and decrease output.”  Ibid.  Thus, a per se rule is appropriate 
only after courts have had considerable experience with the type of 
restraint at issue, see Broadcast Music, Inc. v. Columbia Broadcasting 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
878  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Syllabus 
System, Inc., 441 U. S. 1, 9, and only if they can predict with conﬁdence 
that the restraint would be invalidated in all or almost all instances 
under the rule of reason, see Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Soc., 
457 U. S. 332, 344.  Pp. 885–887. 
(b) Because the reasons upon which Dr. Miles relied do not justify a 
per se rule, it is necessary to examine, in the ﬁrst instance, the economic 
effects of vertical agreements to ﬁx minimum resale prices and to deter­
mine whether the per se rule is nonetheless appropriate.  Were this 
Court considering the issue as an original matter, the rule of reason, 
not a per se rule of unlawfulness, would be the appropriate standard to 
judge vertical price restraints.  Pp. 887–899. 
(1) Economics literature is replete with procompetitive justiﬁca­
tions for a manufacturer’s use of resale price maintenance, and the few 
recent studies on the subject also cast doubt on the conclusion that the 
practice meets the criteria for a per se rule.  The justiﬁcations for verti­
cal price restraints are similar to those for other vertical restraints. 
Minimum resale price maintenance can stimulate interbrand competi­
tion among manufacturers selling different brands of the same type of 
product by reducing intrabrand competition among retailers selling the 
same brand.  This is important because the antitrust laws’ “primary 
purpose . . . is to protect interbrand competition,” Khan, supra, at 15. 
A single manufacturer’s use of vertical price restraints tends to elimi­
nate intrabrand price competition; this in turn encourages retailers to 
invest in services or promotional efforts that aid the manufacturer’s 
position as against rival manufacturers.  Resale price maintenance may 
also  give  consumers  more  options  to  choose  among  low-price,  low­
service brands; high-price, high-service brands; and brands falling in 
between.  Absent vertical price restraints, retail services that enhance 
interbrand competition might be underprovided because discounting re­
tailers can free ride on retailers who furnish services and then capture 
some of the demand those services generate.  Retail price maintenance 
can also increase interbrand competition by facilitating market entry 
for new ﬁrms and brands and by encouraging retailer services that 
would not be provided even absent free riding.  Pp. 889–892. 
(2) Setting minimum resale prices may also have anticompetitive 
effects; and unlawful price ﬁxing, designed solely to obtain monopoly 
proﬁts, is an ever-present temptation.  Resale price maintenance may, 
for example, facilitate a manufacturer cartel or be used to organize retail 
cartels.  It can also be abused by a powerful manufacturer or retailer. 
Thus, the potential anticompetitive consequences of vertical price re­
straints must not be ignored or underestimated.  Pp. 892–894. 
(3) Notwithstanding the risks of unlawful conduct, it cannot be 
stated with any degree of conﬁdence that retail price maintenance “al­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  879 
Syllabus 
ways or almost always tend[s] to restrict competition and decrease out­
put,” Business Electronics, supra, at 723.  Vertical retail price agree­
ments have either procompetitive or anticompetitive effects, depending 
on the circumstances in which they were formed; and the limited empiri­
cal evidence available does not suggest efﬁcient uses of the agreements 
are infrequent or hypothetical.  A per se rule should not be adopted for 
administrative convenience alone.  Such rules can be counterproduc­
tive, increasing the antitrust system’s total cost by prohibiting procom­
petitive conduct the antitrust laws should encourage.  And a per se rule 
cannot be justiﬁed by the possibility of higher prices absent a further 
showing of anticompetitive conduct.  The antitrust laws primarily are 
designed to protect interbrand competition from which lower prices can 
later result.  Respondent’s argument overlooks that, in general, the in­
terests of manufacturers and consumers are aligned with respect to re­
tailer proﬁt margins.  Resale price maintenance has economic dangers. 
If the rule of reason were to apply, courts would have to be diligent in 
eliminating their anticompetitive uses from the market.  Factors rele­
vant to the inquiry are the number of manufacturers using the practice, 
the restraint’s source, and a manufacturer’s market power.  The rule 
of reason is designed and used to ascertain whether transactions are 
anticompetitive or procompetitive.  This standard principle applies to 
vertical price restraints.  As courts gain experience with these re­
straints by applying the rule of reason over the course of decisions, 
they can establish the litigation structure to ensure the rule operates to 
eliminate anticompetitive restraints from the market and to provide 
more guidance to businesses.  Pp. 894–899. 
(c) Stare decisis does not compel continued adherence to the per se 
rule here.  Because the Sherman Act is treated as a common-law stat­
ute, its prohibition on “restraint[s] of trade” evolves to meet the dynam­
ics of present economic conditions.  The rule of reason’s case-by-case 
adjudication implements this common-law approach.  Here, respected 
economics authorities suggest that the per se rule is inappropriate. 
And both the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission 
recommend replacing the per se rule with the rule of reason.  In addi­
tion, this Court has “overruled [its] precedents when subsequent cases 
have undermined their doctrinal underpinnings.”  Dickerson v. United 
States, 530 U. S. 428, 443.  It is not surprising that the Court has dis­
tanced itself from Dr. Miles’ rationales, for the case was decided not 
long after the Sherman Act was enacted, when the Court had little expe­
rience with antitrust analysis.  Only eight years after Dr. Miles, the 
Court reined in the decision, holding that a manufacturer can suggest 
resale prices and refuse to deal with distributors who do not follow 
them, United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307–308; and more 

