

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE  SCALIA delivered  the opinion of the Court with
respect to Part  I,  and  delivered  a dissenting  opinion with
respect to Part II.*
With  respect  to  the  petition  in  No.  91-1111,  I  join  the
Court's judgment  and  Parts  I  and  11-A  of its  opinion.  I
write  separately  because  I  do  not  agree  with  JUSTICE
SOUTER's  analysis,  set forth in Part II-B of his opinion, of
what  constitutes  a  "boycott"  for  purposes  of § 3(b)  of the
McCarran-Ferguson Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1013(b).  With respect
to  the petition  in  No.  91-1128,  I  dissent  from the  Court's
ruling  concerning  the  extraterritorial  application  of  the
Sherman  Act.  Part  I  below  discusses  the boycott  issue;
Part II extraterritoriality.
I
Determining proper application  of §3 (b) of the McCarran-
Ferguson Act to the present cases requires precise definition
of the word  "boycott."1  It is  a relatively  new word, little
more than  a century  old.  It was  first used in  1880,  to de-
scribe  the collective  action  taken  against  Captain  Charles
Boycott, an English agent managing various estates in Ire-
land.  The  Land League,  an  Irish organization  formed  the
previous  year, had  demanded  that  landlords  reduce  their
rents and had urged tenants to avoid dealing with those who
failed  to do  so.  Boycott  did  not bend  to the demand  and
instead ordered evictions.  In retaliation, the tenants "seniti
Captain  Boycott to Coventry  in a  very thorough  manner."
J. McCarthy, England  Under  Gladstone  108  (1886).  "The
population of the region for miles round resolved not to have
anything to do with him, and, as far as they  could prevent
*JUsTICE O'CONNOR, JUSTICE KENNEDY, and JUSTICE THOMAs join this
opinion in its entirety, and THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins Part I of this opinion.
'Section  3(b)  of the  McCarran-Ferguson  Act,  1.5  U. S. C.  § 1013(b),
provides:
"Nothing contained in this Act shall render the said Sherman Act in-
applicable  to any agreement to  boycott, coerce, or intimidate,  or act of
boycott, coercion, or intimidation."

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
it, not  to  allow any  one  else  to have  anything  to do  with
him.  . .[T]he  awful  sentence  of excommunication  could
.
hardly have rendered him more helplessly alone for a time.
No  one would work for him; no one would supply him with
food."  Id., at 108-109; see also H. Laidler, Boycotts and the
Labor Struggle 23-27 (1968).  Thus, the verb made from the
unfortunate  Captain's  name  has  had  from  the  outset  the
meaning  it continues  to carry  today.  To  "boycott"  means
"[t]o  combine in refusing to hold relations of any kind, social
or commercial, public or private, with (a neighbour),  on ac-
count of political or other differences, so as to punish him for
the position he has taken up, or coerce him into abandoning
it."  2 Oxford English Dictionary 468 (2d ed. 1989).
Petitioners  have  suggested  that a  boycott  ordinarily  re-
quires "an absolute refusal to deal on any terms," which was
concededly  not the case here.  Brief for Petitioners  in No.
91-1111,  p. 31;  see  also Reply  Brief for Petitioners  in No.
91-1111,  pp.  12-13.  We  think not.  As the definition just
recited provides, the refusal may be imposed "to punish [the
target] for the position he has taken up, or coerce him into
abandoning it."  The  refusal to deal  may, in other words,
be conditional, offering its target the incentive of renewed
dealing if and when he mends his ways.  This  is often the
case-and indeed seems to have been the case with the origi-
nal  Boycott boycott.  Cf. McCarthy,  supra, at  109  (noting
that the Captain later lived "at peace" with his neighbors).
Furthermore, other dictionary definitions extend the term to
include a partial boycott-a refusal to engage in some, but
not all,  transactions  with  the target.  See  Webster's  New
International Dictionary 321 (2d ed. 1950) (defining "boycott"
as "to  withhold, wholly or in part, social or business inter-
course from, as an expression of disapproval or means of co-
ercion" (emphasis added)).
It  is,  however,  important-and  crucial  in  the  present
cases-to distinguish  between  a  conditional  boycott  and  a
concerted  agreement to seek particular terms in particular

NEW PAGE

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
transactions.  A concerted agreement to terms (a "carteliza-
tion") is  "a way of obtaining and  exercising market  power
by concertedly exacting terms like those which a monopolist
might  exact."  L.  Sullivan,  Law  of  Antitrust  257  (1977).
The parties to such an agreement (the members of a cartel)
are not engaging in a boycott, because:
"They  are  not  coercing  anyone,  at  least  in  the  usual
sense of that word; they are merely (though concertedly)
saying  'we  will deal with you only on the following
trade terms.'
"....  Indeed, if a concerted agreement, say, to include
a security deposit in all contracts is a 'boycott' because
it  excludes  all buyers  who  won't agree  to  it, then  by
parity of reasoning every price fixing agreement would
be a boycott also.  The use  of the single  concept, boy-
cott, to cover agreements  so varied  in nature can only
add to confusion."  Ibid. (emphasis added).
Thus, if Captain Boycott's tenants had agreed  among them-
selves that they would refuse to renew their leases unless he
reduced  his rents, that would have  been a concerted agree-
ment on  the terms  of the leases, but not  a boycott.2  The
tenants, of course, did more than that; they refused to engage
in other, unrelated transactions  with Boycott-e. g.,  selling
him  food-unless he  agreed  to their terms  on rents.  It is
2 Under the Oxford English Dictionary definition, of course, this example
would not be a "boycott" because the tenants had not suspended all rela-
tions with the Captain.  But if one recognizes partial boycotts (as we and
JUSTICE SOUTER do), and if one believes (as JUSTICE SOUTER does but we
do not) that the purpose of a boycott can be to secure different terms in
the very transaction that is the supposed subject of the boycott, then it is
impossible to explain why this is not a boycott.  Under JUSTICE SOUTER'S
reasoning, it would be a boycott, at least if the tenants acted "at the behest
of"  (whatever that means), ante, at 792,  the  Irish Land League.  This
hypothetical shows that the problems presented by partial boycotts (which
we agree  fall within §3(b)) make  more urgent  the need  to distinguish
boycotts from concerted agreements on terms.

