

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
observe  certain  substantive  requirements  imposed by that
law.  Section 203 of the Act requires that common carriers
file "schedules" (also known as "tariffs") containing all their
"charges" for interstate services and all "classifications, prac-
tices,  and  regulations  affecting  such  charges."  ยง203(a).
The Federal Communications  Commission  (FCC), which is
the agency responsible for enforcing the Act, requires carri-
ers to sell long-distance services to resellers such as respond-
ent under the same rates, terms, and conditions as apply to
other customers.
Prior to  1989, petitioner  had  developed  a  type  of long-
distance service known as Software Defined Network (SDN),
designed to meet the needs of large companies with offices
in multiple  locations.  SDN  established  a  "virtual  private
network" that allowed  employees  in different  locations  to
communicate  easily.  For example, an employee in Washing-
ton  could  call  a  co-worker  in Denver  simply  by dialing a
four-digit  extension.  SDN  customers,  in  exchange  for  a
commitment to purchase large volumes of long-distance  com-
munication time, received this service at a rate much below
what it would otherwise cost.
Several  changes  to  SDN  in  1989  made  the  service  ex-
tremely attractive to resellers, such as respondent, who ag-
gregate  smaller customers.  Petitioner developed the capa-
bility to allow customers to use ordinary ("switched access")
telephone lines to connect locations to their SDN networks.
Previously, locations had to be connected  over special "dedi-
cated access" lines, which  are direct lines from a location's
telephone system to petitioner's long-distance  network, by-
passing  the switches  of the local  exchange  carrier.  Dedi-
cated access involves large fixed costs, so it is cost effective
only  when  a location  originates  a  large  volume  of  calls.
Switched access, in contrast, does not entail additional high
fixed costs, so it is better suited to small users and hence to
resellers.  Petitioner also instituted two pricing promotions
for SDN in 1989:  additional discounts  from the basic SDN

NEW PAGE

218  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
rates for customers  making large usage and duration com-
mitments, and waiver  of installation  charges  for customers
making  multiyear  commitments  (subject  to  penalties  for
early termination).  Petitioner also added a new billing op-
tion.  In addition to network billing, whereby petitioner pre-
pares a single bill that applies the tariffed rate to all usage at
all locations, petitioner started to offer multilocation billing
(MLB), which allows the SDN volume discounts to be appor-
tioned between an SDN customer and individual locations on
its network, with  the proportion being chosen  by the cus-
tomer.  Under this option, petitioner sends bills directly to
the customer's individual locations (which, in the case of re-
sellers, means to the reseller's customers) but the customer
(or reseller) remains responsible for all payments.  The tar-
iff provides, however, that petitioner is not responsible for
the  allocation  of  charges.  See  AT&T  Tariff FCC  No.  1,
ยง 6.2.4 (1986), App. to Brief for Petitioner 24a.
Attracted  by these changes, in October 1989, respondent
approached  petitioner  regarding  its  possible  purchase  of
SDN.  LaDonna Kisor, a sales representative in petitioner's
Portland, Oregon, office, described the service and gave re-
spondent literature on SDN.  She predicted that petitioner
could establish an initial SDN network for respondent in four
to five months, and could thereafter add new locations within
30 days of receiving an order.  Respondent subscribed to a
tariffed switched-access  SDN plan under which the up-front
installation charges would be waived and respondent would
receive a  17% to 20% discount  off basic SDN rates in ex-
change for a 4-year commitment to purchase two million min-
utes of service annually.  Respondent  also requested MLB.
Petitioner  confirmed  respondent's  order,  stating  that  re-
spondent would obtain SDN  "'pursuant to the rates, terms
and conditions in AT&T's [FCC Tariff No. 1],"  and that the
provisions  of the tariff, "'including  limitations  on AT&T's
liabilities, shall govern your and AT&T's obligations and lia-
bilities  with  respect  to the  service  and  options you  have

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
selected."'  Brief for Petitioner  14.  Respondent  accepted
these terms in writing on October 30, 1989.
By February  1990, it had become apparent  that the de-
mand for SDN exceeded  petitioner's  expectations-largely
because of the switchless resellers attracted to the service.
Petitioner could not fill the volumes of switched-access  or-
ders  as  rapidly  as  dedicated  access  orders,  or  as  quickly
as  petitioner's  personnel  had  predicted.  Accordingly,  Ms.
Kisor notified respondent that it would take up to 90 days to
add  new  locations  after  the initial  SDN  was  established.
She suggested placing respondent's customers with another
AT&T service, the Multilocation Calling Plan (MLCP), until
they could be placed on SDN.  Respondent agreed to this,
and ordered MLCP.  Again, respondent signed a letter con-
firming that MLCP "'is  provided under the terms and condi-
tions stated in AT&T's Tariff F. C. C. Nos. 1 and 2."'  Brief
for Appellant in Nos. 94-36116, 94-36156 (CA9), p. 15.
Ms. Kisor informed respondent that its initial SDN net-
work was functioning in April 1990.  At that point, respond-
ent elected to increase to a larger SDN volume commitment
in order to  qualify for  a larger discount.  In  placing this
order, respondent signed a form stating that the SDN serv-
ice  "'WILL  BE  GOVERNED  BY  THE  RATES  AND
TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS  IN  THE  APPROPRIATE
AT&T TARIFFS."'  Brief for Petitioner 14-15.  Respond-
ent then began reselling SDN to its own customers and plac-
ing orders with petitioner that required petitioner to treat
respondent's  customers  as if they were new locations  on a
corporate SDN.
Almost from the outset, respondent experienced problems
with the network, including delays in provisioning (the filling
of orders) and in billing.  An additional billing problem was
especially damaging  to respondent:  respondent's customers
received bills reflecting 100% of the discount instead of the
50% respondent selected.  These problems continued, and in
October 1990, they led respondent to switch to network bill-

