

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  441 
Syllabus 
given leave to amend their complaint to bring a Brooke Group claim; 
and such other matters properly before it.  Pp. 455–457. 
503 F. 3d 876, reversed and remanded. 
Roberts, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Scalia, 
Kennedy, Thomas, and Alito, JJ., joined.  Breyer, J., ﬁled an opinion 
concurring in the judgment, in which Stevens, Souter, and Ginsburg, 
JJ., joined, post, p. 457. 
Aaron M. Panner argued the cause for petitioners.  With 
him on the briefs was Michael K. Kellogg. 
Deanne  E.  Maynard  argued  the  cause  for  the  United 
States as amicus curiae urging vacatur.  With her on the 
brief were former Solicitor General Garre, Assistant Attor­
ney General Barnett, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, 
Deputy Assistant Attorney General O’Connell, Catherine G. 
O’Sullivan, and David Seidman. 
Maxwell M. Blecher argued the cause and ﬁled a brief 
for respondents. 
Richard M. Brunell argued the cause and ﬁled a brief as 
amicus curiae for the American Antitrust Institute.  With 
him on the brief was Albert A. Foer.* 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the Common­
wealth of Virginia et al. by Robert F. McDonnell, Attorney General of 
Virginia, Stephen R. McCullough, State Solicitor General, William C. 
Mims, Chief Deputy Attorney General, Sarah Oxenham Allen, Assistant 
Attorney General, and William E. Thro, and by the Attorneys General for 
their respective States as follows: Troy King of Alabama, John W. Suthers 
of  Colorado,  Bill  McCollum  of  Florida,  Steve  Six  of  Kansas,  Jon  C. 
Bruning of Nebraska, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Mark L. 
Shurtleff of Utah, and Robert M. McKenna of Washington; for Abbott 
Laboratories by Gene C. Schaerr, Steffen N. Johnson, Charles B. Klein, 
James F. Hurst, and Linda T. Coberly; for Verizon Communications Inc. 
et al. by John Thorne, Richard G. Taranto, Jan S. Amundson, and Quen­
tin Riegel; and for the Washington Legal Foundation by Mark J. Botti, 
Daniel J. Popeo, and Richard A. Samp. 
Briefs of amici curiae were ﬁled for COMPTEL by Samuel L. Feder, 
Elaine J. Goldenberg, and Mary C. Albert; and for Professors and Scholars 
in Law and Economics by J. Gregory Sidak and Robert H. Bork, both 
pro se. 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
442  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
Chief  Justice  Roberts  delivered  the  opinion  of  the 
Court. 
The plaintiffs in this case, respondents here, allege that a 
competitor subjected them to a “price squeeze” in violation 
of § 2 of the Sherman Act.  They assert that such a claim 
can arise when a vertically integrated ﬁrm sells inputs at 
wholesale and also sells ﬁnished goods or services at retail. 
If that ﬁrm has power in the wholesale market, it can simul­
taneously raise the wholesale price of inputs and cut the re­
tail price of the ﬁnished good.  This will have the effect of 
“squeezing” the proﬁt margins of any competitors in the re­
tail market.  Those ﬁrms will have to pay more for the in­
puts they need; at the same time, they will have to cut their 
retail prices to match the other ﬁrm’s prices.  The question 
before  us  is  whether  such  a  price-squeeze  claim  may  be 
brought under § 2 of the Sherman Act when the defendant is 
under no antitrust obligation to sell the inputs to the plaintiff 
in  the  ﬁrst  place.  We  hold  that  no  such  claim  may  be 
brought. 
I 
This case involves the market for digital subscriber line 
(DSL) service, which is a method of connecting to the In­
ternet at high speeds over telephone lines.  AT&T 1  owns 
much of the infrastructure and facilities needed to provide 
DSL  service  in  California.  In  particular,  AT&T  controls 
most of what is known as the “last mile”—the lines that con­
nect homes and businesses to the telephone network.  Com­
peting  DSL  providers  must  generally  obtain  access  to 
AT&T’s facilities in order to serve their customers. 
Until recently, the Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) required incumbent phone companies such as AT&T 
1 Petitioners consist of several corporate entities and subsidiaries, and 
their names and corporate structures have changed frequently over the 
course of this litigation.  For simplicity, we will refer to all the petitioners 
as “AT&T.” 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  443 
Opinion of the Court 
to sell transmission service to independent DSL providers, 
under  the  theory  that  this  would  spur  competition.  See 
In re Appropriate Framework for Broadband Access to In­
ternet Over Wireline Facilities, 20 FCC Rcd. 14853, 14868 
(2005).  In  2005,  the  FCC  largely  abandoned  this  forced­
sharing requirement in light of the emergence of a competi­
tive market beyond DSL for high-speed Internet service; 
DSL now faces robust competition from cable companies and 
wireless and satellite services.  Id., at 14879–14887.  As a 
condition  for  a  recent  merger,  however,  AT&T  remains 
bound by the mandatory interconnection requirements, and 
is obligated to provide wholesale “DSL transport” service to 
independent ﬁrms at a price no greater than the retail price 
of AT&T’s DSL service.  In re AT&T Inc., 22 FCC Rcd. 
5662, 5814 (2007). 
The plaintiffs are four independent Internet service pro­
viders (ISPs) that compete with AT&T in the retail DSL 
market.  Plaintiffs do not own all the facilities needed to 
supply  their  customers  with  this  service.  They  instead 
lease  DSL  transport  service  from  AT&T  pursuant  to  the 
merger conditions described above.  AT&T thus participates 
in the DSL market at both the wholesale and retail levels; it 
provides plaintiffs and other independent ISPs with whole­
sale DSL transport service, and it also sells DSL service 
directly to consumers at retail. 
In July 2003, the plaintiffs brought suit in District Court, 
alleging  that  AT&T  violated  § 2  of  the  Sherman  Act,  15 
U. S. C. § 2, by monopolizing the DSL market in California. 
The complaint alleges that AT&T refused to deal with the 
plaintiffs, denied the plaintiffs access to essential facilities, 
and engaged in a “price squeeze.”  App. 18–19.  Speciﬁcally, 
plaintiffs contend that AT&T squeezed their proﬁt margins 
by setting a high wholesale price for DSL transport and a 
low retail price for DSL Internet service.  This maneuver 
allegedly “exclude[d] and unreasonably impede[d] competi­

