

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  889 
Opinion of the Court 
The reasons upon which Dr. Miles relied do not justify a 
per se rule.  As a consequence, it is necessary to examine, 
in the ﬁrst instance, the economic effects of vertical agree­
ments  to  ﬁx  minimum  resale  prices,  and  to  determine 
whether  the  per  se  rule  is  nonetheless  appropriate.  See 
Business Electronics, 485 U. S., at 726. 
A 
Though each side of the debate can ﬁnd sources to support 
its position, it sufﬁces to say here that economics literature 
is replete with procompetitive justiﬁcations for a manufac­
turer’s use of resale price maintenance.  See, e. g., Brief for 
Economists as Amici Curiae 16 (“In the theoretical litera­
ture, it is essentially undisputed that minimum [resale price 
maintenance] can have procompetitive effects and that under 
a variety of market conditions it is unlikely to have anticom­
petitive effects”); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 
9 (“[T]here is a widespread consensus that permitting a man­
ufacturer to control the price at which its goods are sold may 
promote interbrand competition and consumer welfare in a 
variety of ways”); ABA Section of Antitrust Law, Antitrust 
Law and Economics of Product Distribution 76 (2006) (“[T]he 
bulk of the economic literature on [resale price maintenance] 
suggests that [it] is more likely to be used to enhance efﬁ­
ciency than for anticompetitive purposes”); see also H. Ho­
venkamp, The Antitrust Enterprise: Principle and Execution 
184–191 (2005) (hereinafter Hovenkamp); R. Bork, The Anti­
trust  Paradox  288–291  (1978)  (hereinafter  Bork).  Even 
those more skeptical of resale price maintenance acknowl­
edge it can have procompetitive effects.  See, e. g., Brief for 
William S. Comanor et al. as Amici Curiae 3 (“[G]iven [the] 
diversity of effects [of resale price maintenance], one could 
reasonably take the position that a rule of reason rather than 
a  per  se  approach  is  warranted”);  F.  Scherer  &  D.  Ross, 
Industrial Market Structure and Economic Performance 558 
(3d ed. 1990) (hereinafter Scherer & Ross) (“The overall bal­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
890  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
ance between beneﬁts and costs [of resale price maintenance] 
is probably close”). 
The few recent studies documenting the competitive ef­
fects  of  resale  price  maintenance  also  cast  doubt  on  the 
conclusion that the practice meets the criteria for a per se 
rule.  See Bureau of Economics Staff Report to the FTC, 
T. Overstreet, Resale Price Maintenance: Economic Theories 
and Empirical Evidence 170 (1983) (hereinafter Overstreet) 
(noting that “[e]fﬁcient uses of [resale price maintenance] are 
evidently  not  unusual  or  rare”);  see  also  Ippolito,  Resale 
Price Maintenance: Empirical Evidence From Litigation, 34 
J. Law & Econ. 263, 292–293 (1991) (hereinafter Ippolito). 
The justiﬁcations for vertical price restraints are similar 
to those for other vertical restraints.  See GTE Sylvania, 
433 U. S., at 54–57.  Minimum resale price maintenance can 
stimulate  interbrand  competition—the  competition  among 
manufacturers selling different brands of the same type of 
product—by reducing intrabrand competition—the competi­
tion among retailers selling the same brand.  See id., at 51– 
52.  The promotion of interbrand competition is important 
because “the primary purpose of the antitrust laws is to pro­
tect [this type of] competition.”  Khan, 522 U.S., at 15.  A 
single manufacturer’s use of vertical price restraints tends 
to eliminate intrabrand price competition; this in turn en­
courages retailers to invest in tangible or intangible services 
or promotional efforts that aid the manufacturer’s position 
as against rival manufacturers.  Resale price maintenance 
also has the potential to give consumers more options so that 
they can choose among low-price, low-service brands; high­
price, high-service brands; and brands that fall in between. 
Absent vertical price restraints, the retail services that 
enhance  interbrand  competition  might  be  underprovided. 
This is because discounting retailers can free ride on retail­
ers who furnish services and then capture some of the in­
creased demand those services generate.  GTE Sylvania, 
supra, at 55.  Consumers might learn, for example, about 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  891 
Opinion of the Court 
the beneﬁts of a manufacturer’s product from a retailer that 
invests in ﬁne showrooms, offers product demonstrations, or 
hires and trains knowledgeable employees.  R. Posner, Anti­
trust Law 172–173 (2d ed. 2001) (hereinafter Posner).  Or 
consumers might decide to buy the product because they see 
it in a retail establishment that has a reputation for selling 
high-quality  merchandise.  Marvel  &  McCafferty,  Resale 
Price  Maintenance  and  Quality  Certiﬁcation,  15  Rand  J. 
Econ. 346, 347–349 (1984) (hereinafter Marvel & McCafferty). 
If the consumer can then buy the product from a retailer 
that  discounts  because  it  has  not  spent  capital  provid­
ing services or developing a quality reputation, the high­
service retailer will lose sales to the discounter, forcing it to 
cut back its services to a level lower than consumers would 
otherwise prefer.  Minimum resale price maintenance alle­
viates the problem because it prevents the discounter from 
undercutting  the  service  provider.  With  price  competi­
tion decreased, the manufacturer’s retailers compete among 
themselves over services. 
Resale price maintenance, in addition, can increase inter­
brand competition by facilitating market entry for new ﬁrms 
and brands.  “[N]ew manufacturers and manufacturers en­
tering new markets can use the restrictions in order to in­
duce competent and aggressive retailers to make the kind of 
investment of capital and labor that is often required in the 
distribution of products unknown to the consumer.”  GTE 
Sylvania, supra, at 55; see Marvel & McCafferty 349 (noting 
that reliance on a retailer’s reputation “will decline as the 
manufacturer’s brand becomes better known, so that [resale 
price maintenance] may be particularly important as a com­
petitive device for new entrants”).  New products and new 
brands are essential to a dynamic economy, and if markets 
can be penetrated by using resale price maintenance there 
is a procompetitive effect. 
Resale  price  maintenance  can  also  increase  interbrand 
competition by encouraging retailer services that would not 

