

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
According  to  the  London  reinsurers,  the  District  Court
should have declined to exercise such jurisdiction under the
principle  of international  comity.U  The  Court  of Appeals
agreed that courts should look to that principle  in deciding
whether  to  exercise  jurisdiction  under  the  Sherman  Act.
Id.,  at  932.  This  availed  the  London  reinsurers  nothing,
however.  To  be  sure, the Court of Appeals  believed  that
"application of [American]  antitrust laws to the London rein-
surance market 'would lead to significant conflict with Eng-
lish law and policy,"'  and that "[s]uch  a  conflict, unless out-
weighed by other factors, would by itself be reason to decline
export transactions  that did not injure the United  States economy, see
H. R. Rep. No. 97-686, pp. 2-3, 9-10 (1982); P. Areeda & H. Hovenkamp,
Antitrust Law  236'a, pp. 296-297 (Supp. 1992), and it is unclear how it
might apply to the conduct alleged here.  Also unclear is whether the
Act's  "direct, substantial,  and  reasonably  foreseeable  effect"  standard
amends existing law or merely codifies  it.  See id.,  236'a, p. 297.  We
need  not  address  these  questions  here.  Assuming  that  the  FTAIA's
standard affects this litigation, and assuming further that that standard
differs  from  the  prior  law,  the  conduct  alleged  plainly  meets  its
requirements.
24JUSTICE  SCALIA contends that comity concerns figure into the prior
analysis whether jurisdiction exists under the Sherman Act.  Post, at 817-
818.  This contention is inconsistent with the general understanding that
the Sherman Act covers foreign conduct producing a substantial intended
effect in the United States, and that concerns of comity come into play, if
at all, only after a court has determined that the acts complained of are
subject to Sherman Act jurisdiction.  See United States v. Aluminum Co.
of America, 148 F. 2d, 416, 444 (CA2  1945) ("[I]t follows from what we
have .. .said that [the agreements  at issue] were unlawful [under  the
Sherman Act],  though made abroad, if they were intended to affect im-
ports and did affect them"); Mannington Mills, Inc. v. Congoleum Corp.,
595 F. 2d 1287, 1294 (CA3 1979) (once court determines that jurisdiction
exists under the Sherman Act, question remains whether comity precludes
its exercise);  H. R. Rep. No. 97-686, supra, at 13.  But cf  Timberlane
Lumber Co. v. Bank of America, N T & S. A, 549 F. 2d 597, 613 (CA9
1976);  1 J. Atwood  & K.  Brewster,  Antitrust and  American  Business
Abroad 166 (1981).  In any event, the parties conceded jurisdiction at oral
argument, see supra, at 795, and we see no need to address this conten-
tion here.

NEW PAGE

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
exercise of jurisdiction."  Id., at 933 (citation omitted).  But
other factors, in the court's view, including the London rein-
surers'  express  purpose  to affect  United  States  commerce
and  the  substantial  nature  of  the  effect  produced,  out-
weighed the supposed conflict  and required  the exercise  of
jurisdiction in this litigation.  Id., at 934.
When it enacted the FTAIA, Congress expressed no view
on  the question whether a court  with  Sherman  Act juris-
diction should ever decline  to exercise  such jurisdiction on
grounds of international comity.  See H. R. Rep. No. 97-686,
p. 13 (1982) ("If a court determines that the requirements for
subject matter jurisdiction are met, [the FTAIA] would have
no effect on the court['s] ability to employ notions of comity
or otherwise to take account of the international charac-
... 
ter of the transaction")  (citing Timberlan).  We need not
decide that question here, however, for even assuming that
in a  proper case a  court may decline  to exercise  Sherman
Act jurisdiction over foreign conduct (or, as JUSTICE SCALIA
would  put it, may  conclude  by  the  employment  of comity
analysis  in  the first instance that there is no jurisdiction),
international  comity  would  not  counsel  against  exercising
jurisdiction in the circumstances alleged here.
The only substantial question in this litigation is whether
"there  is in fact  a true conflict  between domestic and  for-
eign law."  Socidt6 Nationale Industriele Agrospatiale v.
United States Dist. Court for Southern Dist. of Iowa, 482
U. S.  522, 555 (1987)  (BLACKMUN,  J.,  concurring in part and
dissenting  in  part).  The  London  reinsurers  contend  that
applying the Act to their conduct would conflict significantly
with British law, and the British Governmenit, appearing be-
fore us as amicus curiae, concurs.  See Brief for Petitioners
Merrett Underwriting Agency Management Ltd. et al. in No.
91-1128, pp. 22-27; Brief for Government of United Kingdom
of Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  as  Amicus Curiae
10-14.  They assert that Parliament has established a com-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
prehensive regulatory regime over the London reinsurance
market and that the conduct alleged here was perfectly con-
sistent with British law and policy.  But this is not to state
a conflict.  "IT]he fact that conduct is lawful in the state in
which it took place  will not, of itself, bar application  of the
United States antitrust laws," even where the foreign state
has a strong policy to permit or encourage such conduct.  Re-
statement (Third) Foreign Relations  Law ยง 415, Comment j;
see Continental Ore Co., supra, at 706-707.  No conflict ex-
ists, for these purposes, "where a person subject to regula-
tion by two states can comply with the laws of both."  Re-
statement  (Third) Foreign  Relations  Law  ยง403,  Comment
e.2  Since the London reinsurers do not argue that British
law requires them to act in some fashion prohibited by the
law  of the  United  States,  see  Reply  Brief for  Petitioners
Merrett  Underwriting  Agency  Management  Ltd.  et al.  in
No. 91-1128, pp. 7-8, or claim that their compliance with the
laws  of both  countries  is  otherwise  impossible,  we see  no
conflict with British law.  See Restatement  (Third) Foreign
Relations  Law  ยง403,  Comment  e,  ยง415,  Comment j.  We
have no need  in this  litigation to -address other considera-
tions that might inform a decision to refrain from the exer-
cise of jurisdiction on grounds of international comity.
IV
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed in part
and reversed in part, and the cases are remanded for further
proceedings  consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
2 JUSTICE SCALIA says that we put the cart before the horse in citing
this authority, for he argues it may be apposite only after a determination
that jurisdiction over the foreign acts is reasonable.  Post, at 821.  But
whatever the order of cart and horse, conflict in this sense is the only
substantial issue before the Court.

