

254  BROOKE  GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
nary program had a reasonable prospect of persuading Lig-
gett to forgo its maverick price reductions and return to par-
allel pricing  policies, and  thus to restore the same  kind of
supracompetitive pricing that had characterized the industry
in the past.  When  the facts are viewed  in  the light most
favorable to Liggett, I think it clear that there is sufficient
evidence  in the record  that  the "reasonable  possibility"  of
competitive injury required by the statute actually  existed.
III
After 115  days of trial, during which  it considered  2,884
exhibits, 85 deposition excerpts, and testimony from 23 live
witnesses, the jury deliberated  for nine  days and  then re-
turned a verdict finding that B&W engaged in price discrimi-
nation with  a  "reasonable  possibility  of injuring  competi-
tion."  748 F. Supp.,  at 348, n. 4; n. 2, supra.  The  Court's
contrary conclusion  rests on a hodgepodge  of legal, factual,
and economic  propositions that are  insufficient, alone or to-
gether, to overcome  the jury's assessment of the evidence.
First, as a matter of law, the Court reminds  us  that the
Robinson-Patman  Act  is  concerned  with consumer  welfare
and competition, as opposed to protecting individual compet-
itors from harm; "the antitrust laws were passed for the pro-
tection  of competition,  not competitors."  See  ante, at 224
(internal quotations marks and emphasis omitted).  For that
reason, predatory  price  cutting  is not  unlawful unless  the
predator has a reasonable prospect of recouping his invest-
ment  from  supracompetitive  profits.  Ibid.  The  jury, of
course, was so instructed, see n. 2, supra, and no one ques-
tions that proposition here.
As a matter of fact, the Court emphasizes  the growth in
the generic segment following B&W's entry.  As the Court
notes, generics'  expansion  to over  12%  of the total market
by 1988 exceeds B&W's own forecast that the segment would
grow to only about 10%, assuming no entry by B&W.  Ante,
at 234.  What these figures do not do, however, is answer the

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
relevant  question: whether the prices  of generic cigarettes
during the late 1980's were competitive or supracompetitive.
On this point, there is ample, uncontradicted evidence that
the list prices on generic cigarettes, as well as the prices on
branded  cigarettes,  rose regularly  and significantly  during
the late 1980's, in a fashion remarkably similar to the price
change patterns that characterized the industry in the 1970's
when supracompetitive, oligopolistic pricing admittedly pre-
vailed.  See  supra, at 245;  ante, at 213.  Given its knowl-
edge of the industry's history of parallel pricing, I think the
jury plainly was entitled to draw an inference  that these in-
creased prices were supracompetitive.
The Court responds to this evidence dismissively, suggest-
ing that list prices have no bearing on the question because
promotional  activities  of the cigarette  manufacturers  may
have  offset such  price  increases.  Ante, at 235-236.  That
response is insufficient for three reasons.  First, the promo-
tions  to  which  the  majority  refers  related  primarily  to
branded cigarettes; accordingly, while they narrowed the dif-
ferential between branded prices and black and white prices,
they did not reduce the consumer price of black and whites.
See 33 Tr. 208-210.  Second,  the Court's speculation  is in-
consistent  with  record  evidence  that the  semiannual  list
price  increases  were  not  offset  by  consumer  promotions.
See n. 12, supra.  See also ante, at 218 ("at least some por-
tion of the list price increase  was  reflected in a higher net
price  to the consumer").  Finally, to the extent there is a
dispute regarding the effect of promotional activities on con-
sumer prices for generics, the jury presumably resolved that
dispute in Liggett's favor, and the Court's contrary specula-
tion is an  insufficient  basis for setting aside that verdict.5
16I nf inding an absence  of actual supracompetitive  pricing, the Court
also relies on the testimony of Liggett executives, who stated that indus-
try prices were fair.  Illustrative is the following exchange:
"Q I want to know-yes or no-sir, whether or not you say that the
price you charged for branded cigarettes, which is the same price you say

NEW PAGE

256  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
As a matter of economics, the Court reminds us that price
cutting is generally  procompetitive,  and  hence  a  "boon  to
consumers."  Ante,  at  224.  This  is  true,  however,  only
so  long  as  reduced  prices  do  not  fall  below  cost,  as  the
cases cited by the majority make clear.16  When a predator
deliberately engages in below-cost pricing targeted at a par-
ticular  competitor  over  a  sustained  period  of time,  then
price cutting raises a credible inference that harm to compe-
everybody else charged, was a fair and equitable price for that product to
the American consumer.
"A It's what the  industry  set, and  based  on that  it's a  fair price."
App. 396.
The problem with this testimony, and testimony like it, is that it relates
to the period before the price war, as well as after, see id., at 392, when
there is no real dispute but that prices were supracompetitive.  ("[Tihe
profits in the cigarette industry are the best of any industry I've been
associated with, very much so."  Ibid.)  Some of the testimony cited by
the Court, for instance, is that of an outside director who served only from
1977 or 1978 until 1980, see 64 Tr. 51-56, cited ante, at 237; his belief in the
competitiveness  of his industry must be viewed against the "[slubstantial
evidence suggest[ing] that in recent decades, the industry reaped the ben-
efits of prices above a competitive level" to which the majority itself refers,
ante, at 213.
The jury was, of course, entitled to discount the probative force of testi-
mony from  executives  to the effect that there was no  collusion among
tobacco manufacturers,  App. 397-398, and that they had appeared before
a congressional  committee  to vouch for the competitive  nature of their
industry, id., at 623-631.  The jury was also free to give greater weight
to the documentary evidence presented, the inferences to be drawn there-
from, and the testimony of experts who agreed with the textbook charac-
terization of the industry.  See App. 640-645; R. Tennant, American Ciga-
rette Industry 342 (1950).
"II n Atlantic Richfield Co. v. USA Petroleum Co.,  495 U. S. 328,339-340
(1990),  for example, we noted that low prices benefit consumers "so long
as they are above predatory levels."  In Cargill,I nc. v. Monfort of Colo-
rado, Inc., 479 U. S. 104, 118 (1986), we recognized that price cutting of a
predatory nature is "inimical" to competition, and limited  our approving
comments to pricing that is "above some measure of incremental costs."
Id., at 117-118, and n. 12 (internal quotation marks omitted).

