OCTOBER TERM, 1992
Syllabus
BROOKE  GROUP  LTD. v. BROWN  &
WILLIAMSON  TOBACCO  CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 92-466.  Argued March 29, 1993-Decided June 21, 1993
Cigarette manufacturing is a concentrated industry dominated by only six
firms, including the two parties here.  In 1980, petitioner (hereinafter
Liggett) pioneered the economy segment of the market by developing a
line of generic cigarettes offered at a list price roughly 30% lower than
that of branded cigarettes.  By  1984, generics had captured 4% of the
market, at the expense of branded cigarettes, and respondent Brown &
Williamson entered the economy segment, beating Liggett's net price.
Liggett responded in kind, precipitating a price war, which ended, ac-
cording to Liggett, with Brown & Williamson selling its generics at a
loss.  Liggett filed this suit, alleging, inter alia,t hat volume rebates by
Brown & Williamson to wholesalers amounted  to price discrimination
that had a reasonable possibility of injuring competition in violation of
ยง 2(a) of the Clayton Act, as amended by the Robinson-Patman Act.  Lig-
gett  claimed  that the  rebates  were  integral  to  a  predatory  pricing
scheme, in which Brown & Williamson set below-cost prices to pressure
Liggett to raise list prices on its generics, thus restraining the economy
segment's growth and preserving Brown & Williamson's supracompeti-
tive profits on branded cigarettes.  After a jury returned a verdict in
favor of Liggett, the District Court held that Brown & Williamson was
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Among other things, it found
a lack of injury to competition because there had been no slowing of the
generics' growth rate and no tacit coordination of prices in the economy
segment by the various manufacturers.  In affirming, the Court of Ap-
peals held that the dynamic of conscious parallelism among oligopolists
could not produce competitive injury in a predatory pricing setting.
Held: Brown  & Williamson is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
Pp. 219-243.
(a) The Robinson-Patman  Act, by its terms, condemns price discrimi-
nation only to  the extent that it threatens to injure competition.  A
claim of primary-line competitive injury under the Act, the type alleged
here, is of the same general character as a predatory pricing claim under
ยง 2 of the Sherman Act: A business rival has priced its products in an
unfair  manner with an object to  eliminate or retard competition and
thereby gain and exercise control over prices in the relevant market.

NEW PAGE

210  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Syllabus
Utah Pie Co. v. Continental Baking Co., 386 U. S. 685, distinguished.
Accordingly, two prerequisites to recovery are also the same.  A plain-
tiff must prove (1) that the prices complained of are below an appro-
priate measure  of its rival's  costs and (2)  that the competitor  had a
reasonable  prospect of recouping  its investment in below-cost  prices.
Without recoupment, even if predatory pricing causes the target painful
losses, it produces lower aggregate prices in the market, and consumer
welfare is enhanced.  For recoupment to occur, the pricing must be ca-
pable, as a threshold matter, of producing the intended effects on the
firm's rivals.  This requires an understanding of the extent and dura-
tion of the alleged predation, the relative financial strength of the preda-
tor and its intended victim, and their respective  incentives  and  will.
The inquiry is whether, given the aggregate losses caused by the below-
cost  pricing, the intended  target would  likely  succumb.  If so, then
there  is  the further  question  whether  the  below-cost  pricing  would
likely injure competition in the relevant  market.  The  plaintiff must
demonstrate that there  is a likelihood that the scheme alleged would
cause a rise in prices above a competitive level sufficient to compensate
for the amounts expended on the predation, including the time value of
the money invested in it.  Evidence of below-cost pricing is not alone
sufficient to permit an inference  of probable recoupment and injury to
competition.  The determination requires an estimate  of the alleged
predation's  cost and  a close analysis  of both the  scheme alleged  and
the relevant market's structure and conditions.  Although not easy to
establish, these prerequisites  are essential components of real market
injury.  Pp. 219-227.
(b) An oligopoly's interdependent  pricing  may provide a means  for
achieving  recoupment and  thus may form the basis of a primary-line
injury claim.  Predatory pricing schemes,  in general, are implausible,
see Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S.
574, 588-590, and are even more improbable when they require coordi-
nated action among several firms, id., at 590.  They are least likely to
occur where, as alleged here, the cooperation among firms is tacit, since
effective  tacit coordination  is difficult to achieve; since there is a high
likelihood  that any attempt by one oligopolist to discipline a rival by
cutting prices will produce an outbreak of competition; and since a pred-
ator's present losses fall on it alone, while the later supracompetitive
profits  must be  shared with every other  oligopolist in  proportion to
its  market  share,  including  the  intended  victim.  Nonetheless,  the
Robinson-Patman  Act  suggests  no  exclusion  from  coverage  when
primary-line  injury occurs in an oligopoly setting, and this Court de-
clines to create a per se rule of nonliability.  In order for all of the Act's
words  to carry  adequate  meaning,  competitive  injury under the  Act
must extend beyond the monopoly setting.  Pp. 227-230.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Syllabus
(c) The record in this case demonstrates that the scheme Liggett al-
leged, when judged against the market's realities, does not provide an
adequate basis for a finding of liability.  While a reasonable jury could
conclude that Brown & Williamson envisioned or intended an anticom-
petitive course of events and that the price of its generics was below its
costs for 18 months, the evidence is inadequate to show that in pursuing
this scheme, it had a reasonable  prospect of recovering its losses from
below-cost pricing through slowing the growth of generics.  No infer-
ence of recoupment is sustainable on this record,  because no evidence
suggests that Brown & Williamson was  likely to obtain the power to
raise the prices for generic cigarettes above a competitive level, which
is  an  indispensable  aspect  of Liggett's  own  proffered  theory.  The
output and price information does  not indicate  that oligopolistic  price
coordination  in  fact produced  supracompetitive  prices  in  the generic
segment.  Nor  does  the  evidence  about  the  market  and  Brown  &
Williamson's conduct indicate that the alleged scheme was likely to have
brought about tacit coordination and oligopoly pricing in that segment.
Pp. 230-243.
964 F. 2d 335, affirmed.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J.,  and O'CONNOR,  SCALIA,  SOUTER, and THOMAS,  JJ., joined.  STE-
VENS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which WHITE and BLACKMUN,  JJ.,
joined, post, p. 243.
Phillip Areeda argued the cause for petitioner.  With him
on  the briefs were  Charles Fried, Jean E.  Sharpe, Josiah
S.  Murray III, James W  Dobbins, Garret G. Rasmussen,
and C. Allen Foster.
Robert H.  Bork argued  the cause for respondent.  With
him on the brief were Griffin B.  Bell, Frederick M.  Rowe,
Michael L. Robinson, Abbott B. Lipsky, Jr., and  Veronica
G. Kayne.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were fied for Atlantic Rich-
field  Co. by Ronald C. Redcay, Matthew T Heartney, Otis Pratt Pear-
sail, Philip H. Curtis, Francis X. McCormack, Donald A  Bright, and
Edward E. Clark; and for ITT Corp. by John H. Schafer and Edwin A
Kilburn.
Briefs  of amici curiae were  fied  for  the  Business  Roundtable  by
Thomas B. Leary; and for the Grocery Manufacturers of America, Inc., by
Terry Calvani, W. Todd Miller, and C. Douglas Floyd.

