

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
petition  in  the  cigarette  market  since  the  1930's.  See
Scherer & Ross 250-251; App. 128.  This development was
bound to unsettle previous expectations and patterns of mar-
ket conduct and to reduce the cigarette firms' ability to pre-
dict each other's behavior.
The larger number of product types and pricing variables
also  decreased  the probability  of effective  parallel  pricing.
When Brown & Williamson entered the economy segment in
1984, the segment included Value-25s, black and whites, and
brandbd  generics.  With  respect  to  each  product, the  net
price in the market was determined not only by list prices,
but also by  a wide variety  of discounts  and promotions to
consumers and by rebates to wholesalers.  In order to coor-
dinate in an  effective  manner and eliminate price  competi-
tion,  the  cigarette  companies  would  have  been  required,
without communicating,  to establish  parallel practices  with
respect to each of these variables, many of which, like con-
sumer  stickers  or coupons,  were difficult  to monitor.  Lig-
gett has not even alleged  parallel  behavior with respect to
these other  variables, and  the inherent limitations  of tacit
collusion  suggest  that  such  multivariable  coordination  is
improbable.  See  R.  Dorfman,  The  Price  System  99-100,
and n. 10 (1964);  Scherer & Ross 279.
In addition,  R. J. Reynolds  had  incentives  that, in  some
respects, ran counter to those of the other cigarette compa-
nies.  It is implausible that without a shared interest in re-
tarding the growth of the economy segment, Brown  & Wil-
liamson  and  its  fellow  oligopolists  could  have  engaged  in
parallel pricing and raised generic prices above a competitive
level.  "[C]oordination  will  not  be  possible  when  any  sig-
nificant  firm  chooses,  for  any  reason, to  'go  it alone."'  2
Areeda & Turner  404b2, at 276.  It is undisputed-indeed
it was  conceded  by  Liggett's  expert-that  R. J. Reynolds
acted without regard to the supposed benefits of oligopolistic
coordination when it repriced Doral at generic  levels in the
spring of 1984 and that the natural and probable consequence

NEW PAGE

240  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN  & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
of its entry into  the generic  segment was  procompetitive.
55 Tr. 15-16; 51 Tr. 128.  Indeed, Reynolds' apparent objec-
tive  in  entering  the segment  was  to  capture  a  significant
amount  of volume  in order  to regain  its number  one  sales
position in the cigarette industry from Philip Morris.  App.
75,  130, 209-211.  There  is no evidence  that R. J. Reynolds
accomplished  this  goal  during the  period  relevant  to  this
case, or that its commitment to achieving that goal changed.
Indeed, R. J. Reynolds  refused  to follow Brown & William-
son's attempt to raise generic prices in June 1985.  The jury
thus had before  it undisputed  evidence that contradicts  the
suggestion that the major cigarette companies shared a goal
of limiting the growth  of the economy segment;  one  of the
industry's  two  major  players  concededly  entered  the  seg-
ment to expand volume and compete.
Even if all the cigarette companies were willing to partic-
ipate  in  a  scheme  to  restrain  the  growth  of the  generic
segment, they would not have been able to coordinate  their
actions and raise prices above a competitive level unless they
understood  that Brown  & Williamson's  entry into the seg-
ment was not a genuine  effort to compete with Liggett.  If
even  one  other firm misinterpreted  Brown  & Williamson's
entry as an effort to expand share, a chain reaction of com-
petitive responses would almost certainly have resulted, and
oligopoly  discipline would have broken down, perhaps  irre-
trievably.  "[O]nce  the trust among rivals breaks down, it is
as hard to put back together again as was Humpty-Dumpty,
and non-collusive behavior is likely to take over."  Samuel-
son & Nordhaus, Economics, at 534.
Liggett argues that the means by which Brown & William-
son  signaled  its  anticompetitive  intent  to  its  rivals  was
through its pricing structure.  According  to Liggett, main-
taining existing list prices while offering substantial rebates
to wholesalers  was a signal to the other cigarette firms that
Brown  & Williamson  did  not  intend  to attract  additional
smokers to the generic segment by its entry.  But a reason-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
able jury could not conclude that this pricing structure elimi-
nated or rendered insignificant the risk that the other firms
might misunderstand  Brown & Williamson's entry as a com-
petitive  move.  The  likelihood  that  Brown  & Williamson's
rivals would have regarded its pricing structure as an impor-
tant signal is low, given that  Liggett itself, the purported
target of the predation, was  already using similar rebates,
as  was  R. J. Reynolds  in marketing  its Doral  branded  ge-
neric.  A Reynolds  executive responsible for Doral testified
that  given  its  and  Liggett's  use  of  wholesaler  rebates,
Brown  & Williamson  could  not  have  competed  effectively
without them.  App. 756.  And despite extensive discovery
of the corporate records of R. J. Reynolds and Philip Morris,
no  documents  appeared  that  indicated  any  awareness  of
Brown & Williamson's supposed signal by its principal rivals.
Without  effective  signaling,  it is  difficult  to  see  how  the
alleged  predation  could  have  had  a  reasonable  chance  of
success through oligopoly pricing.
Finally, although some of Brown & Williamson's  corporate
planning documents speak of a desire to slow the growth of
the segment, no objective  evidence of its conduct permits a
reasonable inference that it had any real prospect of doing so
through anticompetitive means.  It is undisputed that when
Brown & Williamson introduced its generic  cigarettes, it of-
fered them to a thousand wholesalers  who had never before
purchased  generic  cigarettes.  Record, Plaintiff's  Exh. No.
4079;  87 Tr. 191; 88  Tr. 143-147.  The  inevitable  effect  of
this marketing effort was to expand the segment, as the new
wholesalers  recruited  retail  outlets  to  carry generic  ciga-
rettes.  Even with respect to wholesalers  already carrying
generics,  Brown  & Williamson's  unprecedented  volume re-
bates  had  a  similar  expansionary  effect.  Unlike  many
branded  cigarettes,  generics  came  with no  sales guarantee
to the wholesaler;  any  unsold  stock represented  pure  loss
to the wholesaler.  By  providing substantial  incentives for
wholesalers  to place large orders, Brown & Williamson cre-

