

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  895 
Opinion of the Court 
gests per se illegality is the rule rather than the exception. 
This misinterprets our antitrust law.  Per se rules may de­
crease administrative costs, but that is only part of the equa­
tion.  Those rules can be counterproductive.  They can in­
crease the total cost of the antitrust system by prohibiting 
procompetitive conduct the antitrust laws should encourage. 
See  Easterbrook,  Vertical  Arrangements  and  the  Rule  of 
Reason, 53 Antitrust L. J. 135, 158 (1984) (hereinafter East­
erbrook).  They also may increase litigation costs by pro­
moting  frivolous  suits  against  legitimate  practices.  The 
Court has thus explained that administrative “advantages 
are not sufﬁcient in themselves to justify the creation of per 
se rules,” GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 50, n. 16, and has rele­
gated their use to restraints that are “manifestly anticompet­
itive,” id., at 49–50.  Were the Court now to conclude that 
vertical price restraints should be per se illegal based on 
administrative costs, we would undermine, if not overrule, 
the traditional “demanding standards” for adopting per se 
rules.  Id., at 50.  Any possible reduction in administrative 
costs cannot alone justify the Dr. Miles rule. 
Respondent also argues the per se rule is justiﬁed because 
a vertical price restraint can lead to higher prices for the 
manufacturer’s goods.  See also Overstreet 160 (noting that 
“price  surveys  indicate  that  [resale  price  maintenance]  in 
most  cases  increased  the  prices  of  products  sold”).  Re­
spondent is mistaken in relying on pricing effects absent a 
further showing of anticompetitive conduct.  Cf. id., at 106 
(explaining that price surveys “do not necessarily tell us any­
thing conclusive about the welfare effects of [resale price 
maintenance]  because  the  results  are  generally  consistent 
with  both  procompetitive  and  anticompetitive  theories”). 
For, as has been indicated already, the antitrust laws are 
designed primarily to protect interbrand competition, from 
which lower prices can later result.  See Khan, 522 U. S., 
at 15.  The Court, moreover, has evaluated other vertical 
restraints under the rule of reason even though prices can be 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
896  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
increased in the course of promoting procompetitive effects. 
See, e. g., Business Electronics, 485 U. S., at 728.  And re­
sale price maintenance may reduce prices if manufacturers 
have resorted to costlier alternatives of controlling resale 
prices that are not per se unlawful.  See infra, at 902–904; 
see also Marvel 371. 
Respondent’s  argument,  furthermore,  overlooks  that,  in 
general, the interests of manufacturers and consumers are 
aligned with respect to retailer proﬁt margins.  The differ­
ence between the price a manufacturer charges retailers and 
the price retailers charge consumers represents part of the 
manufacturer’s  cost  of  distribution,  which,  like  any  other 
cost,  the  manufacturer  usually  desires  to  minimize.  See 
GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 56, n. 24; see also id., at 56 
(“Economists . . . have argued that manufacturers have an 
economic interest in maintaining as much intrabrand compe­
tition as is consistent with the efﬁcient distribution of their 
products”).  A manufacturer has no incentive to overcom­
pensate retailers with unjustiﬁed margins.  The retailers, 
not the manufacturer, gain from higher retail prices.  The 
manufacturer often loses; interbrand competition reduces its 
competitiveness and market share because consumers will 
“substitute a different brand of the same product.”  Id., at 
52, n. 19; see Business Electronics, supra, at 725.  As a gen­
eral matter, therefore, a single manufacturer will desire to 
set minimum resale prices only if the “increase in demand 
resulting from enhanced service . . . will  more than offset 
a  negative  impact  on  demand  of  a  higher  retail  price.” 
Mathewson & Winter 67. 
The implications of respondent’s position are far reaching. 
Many  decisions  a  manufacturer  makes  and  carries  out 
through concerted action can lead to higher prices.  A man­
ufacturer might, for example, contract with different suppli­
ers to obtain better inputs that improve product quality.  Or 
it might hire an advertising agency to promote awareness of 
its goods.  Yet no one would think these actions violate the 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  897 
Opinion of the Court 
Sherman Act because they lead to higher prices.  The anti­
trust laws do not require manufacturers to produce generic 
goods that consumers do not know about or want.  The man­
ufacturer strives to improve its product quality or to pro­
mote its brand because it believes this conduct will lead to 
increased demand despite higher prices.  The same can hold 
true for resale price maintenance. 
Resale price maintenance, it is true, does have economic 
dangers.  If  the  rule  of  reason  were  to  apply  to  vertical 
price restraints, courts would have to be diligent in eliminat­
ing their anticompetitive uses from the market.  This is a 
realistic objective, and certain factors are relevant to the 
inquiry.  For  example,  the  number  of  manufacturers  that 
make use of the practice in a given industry can provide 
important  instruction.  When  only  a  few  manufacturers 
lacking market power adopt the practice, there is little likeli­
hood it is facilitating a manufacturer cartel, for a cartel then 
can be undercut by rival manufacturers.  See Overstreet 22; 
Bork 294.  Likewise, a retailer cartel is unlikely when only 
a single manufacturer in a competitive market uses resale 
price  maintenance.  Interbrand  competition  would  divert 
consumers  to  lower  priced  substitutes  and  eliminate  any 
gains to retailers from their price-ﬁxing agreement over a 
single  brand.  See  Posner  172;  Bork  292.  Resale  price 
maintenance should be subject to more careful scrutiny, by 
contrast, if many competing manufacturers adopt the prac­
tice.  Cf. Scherer & Ross 558 (noting that “except when [re­
sale price maintenance] spreads to cover the bulk of an in­
dustry’s output, depriving consumers of a meaningful choice 
between  high-service  and  low-price  outlets,  most  [resale 
price maintenance arrangements] are probably innocu­
ous”); Easterbrook 162 (suggesting that “every one of the 
potentially-anticompetitive outcomes of vertical arrange­
ments depends on the uniformity of the practice”). 
The source of the restraint may also be an important con­
sideration.  If there is evidence retailers were the impetus 

