OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus
AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO. v.
CENTRAL  OFFICE  TELEPHONE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES  COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 97-679.  Argued March 23, 1998-Decided June 15, 1998
Respondent purchases "bulk" communications services from long-distance
providers, such as petitioner AT&T, and resells them to its customers.
Petitioner, as a common carrier under the Communications Act of 1934,
must file with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) "tariffs"
containing  all its  "charges"  for interstate  services and  all  "classifi-
cations, practices, and regulations affecting such charges," 47 U. S. C.
§ 203(a).  A carrier may not "extend to any person any privileges or
facilities in such communication, or employ or enforce any classifications,
regulations,  or practices  affecting  such  charges,  except as  specified
in such  [tariff]."  §203(c).  The FCC requires  carriers  to sell long-
distance services to resellers under the same rates, terms, and condi-
tions as apply to other customers.  In 1989, petitioner agreed to sell
respondent a long-distance  service, which, under the parties' written
subscription agreements, would be governed by the rates, terms, and
conditions in the appropriate AT&T tariffs.  Respondent soon experi-
enced problems with the service it received,  and withdrew from the
contract before the expiration date.  Meanwhile, it had sued petitioner
in Federal  District Court, asserting, inter alia, state-law claims  for
breach of contract and for tortious interference with contractual rela-
tions (viz., respondent's  contracts with its customers), the latter claim
derivative of the former.  Respondent alleged that petitioner had prom-
ised and failed to deliver various service, provisioning, and billing op-
tions in addition to those set forth in the tariff, and that petitioner's
conduct was willful, so that consequential damages were available under
the tariff.  The Magistrate Judge rejected petitioner's  argument that
the  claims  were  pre-empted  by  § 203's  filed-tariff  requirements;  he
declined, however, to instruct on punitive damages  for the tortious-
interference claim.  The jury found for respondent and awarded dam-
ages.  The Ninth Circuit affirmed the judgment, but reversed the Mag-
istrate Judge's failure to instruct on punitive damages and remanded for
a trial on that aspect of the case.
Held. The Communications Act's filed-tariff requirements  pre-empt re-
spondent's state-law claims.  Pp. 221-228.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Syllabus
(a) Sections 203(a) and (c)ar e modeled after similar provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act (ICA), and the "filed rate doctrine" associated
with the ICA tariff provisions applies to the Communications Act as
well.  MCI Telecommunications Corp. v. American Telephone & Tele-
graph Co., 512 U.S. 218, 229-231.  Under that doctrine, the rate a car-
rier duly files is the only lawful charge.  Louisville & Nashville R. Co.
v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94, 97.  Even if a carrier intentionally misrepre-
sents its rate and a customer relies on the misrepresentation, the carrier
cannot be held to the promised rate if it conflicts with the published
tariff.  Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 653.  That
this case involves services and billing rather than rates or ratesetting
does not make the filed rate doctrine inapplicable.  Since rates have
meaning only when one knows the services to which they are attached,
any claim for excessive rates can be couched as a claim for inadequate
services and vice versa.  The Communications Act recognizes this in
the §§203(a) and (c)re quirements, and the cases decided under the ICA
make it clear that discriminatory privileges are not limited to discounted
rates, see, e. g., United States v. Wabash R. Co., 321 U. S. 403, 412-413.
Pp. 221-224.
(b) This Court's filed-rate cases involving special services claims can-
not be distinguished  on the ground that the services they involved
should have been included in the tarift  That is precisely the case here.
Even provisioning  and billing are  "covered" by the applicable  tariff.
Nor does it make any difference that petitioner provided the same serv-
ices, without charge, to other customers;  that only tends to show that
petitioner acted unlawfully with regard to the other customers as well.
Pp. 224-226.
(c) The analysis used in evaluating respondents contract claim applies
with equal force to its wholly  derivative tortious-interference  claim.
The Communications Act's saving clause does not dictate a different
result.  It copies the ICA's saving clause, which has long been held to
preserve only those rights that are not inconsistent with the statutory
filed-rate requirements.  Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260
U. S. 156, 163.  Finally, respondents argument that petitioner's willful
misconduct makes the relief awarded here consistent with the tariff is
rejected.  Pp. 226-228.
108 F. 3d 981, reversed.
ScALIA,  J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J.,  and  KENNEDY,  SoUTER,  THoMAs,  GINSBURG, and  BREYER,  JJ.,
joined.  REHNQUIsT, C. J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 228.  STE-
VENS,  J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 231.  O'CoNNo?, J.,to ok no
part in the consideration or decision of the case.

NEW PAGE

216  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
David W.  Carpenter argued  the  cause  for  petitioner.
With him on the briefs were Carter G. Phillips, Thomas W.
Merrill, Peter D. Keisler, and Marc E. Manly.
Bruce M. Hall argued  the  cause  and  ified  a brief for
respondent.*
JUSTICE SCALIA delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent  Central  Office  Telephone,  Inc.  (COT),  a re-
seller  of long-distance  communications  services,  sued peti-
tioner  AT&T,  a  provider  of long-distance  communications
services, under state law for breach of contract and tortious
interference  with  contract.  Petitioner  is  regulated  as  a
common  carrier under the Communications  Act of 1934, 48
Stat. 1064, as amended, 47 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.  The issue
before  us  is  whether the  federal  filed-tariff  requirements
of the Communications Act pre-empt respondent's state-law
claims.
I
Respondent  purchases  "bulk"  long-distance  services-
volume-discounted  services designed for large customers-
from long-distance  providers,  and  resells  them to  smaller
customers.  Like many other resellers in the telecommuni-
cations industry, respondent does not own or operate facili-
ties of its own; it is known as a "switchless reseller," which
is the industry nomenclature for arbitrageur.  Of course re-
spondent passes  along only a  portion of the bulk-purchase
discount  to its  aggregated  customers,  and  retains  the  re-
maining discount as profit.
Petitioner provides long-distance  services and, as a com-
mon carrier under the Communications  Act, § 153(h),  must
*Gary M. Epstein, Maureen E.  Mahoney, Teresa D. Baer, Walter H.
Alford,  William B.  Barfield, M. Robert Sutherland, and  Michael J
Zpevak filed a brief for the United States Telephone Association et al. as
amici curiae urging reversal.
Henry D. Levine, Ellen G. Block, and James S. Blaszak filed a brief for
the Ad Hoc Telecommunications Users Committee et al. as amici curiae.

