

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  285 
Stevens, J., concurring in judgment 
The Solicitor General’s proposed disposition, however, does 
not  convincingly  address  the  concerns  we  have  set  forth 
here—the difﬁculty of drawing a complex, sinuous line sepa­
rating  securities-permitted  from  securities-forbidden  con­
duct, the need for securities-related expertise to draw that 
line, the likelihood that litigating parties will depend upon 
the same evidence yet expect courts to draw different infer­
ences from it, and the serious risk that antitrust courts will 
produce inconsistent results that, in turn, will overly deter 
syndicate practices important in the marketing of new is­
sues.  (We also note that market divisions appear to fall well 
outside the heartland of activities related to the underwrit­
ing process than the conduct before us here, and we express 
no view in respect to that kind of activity.) 
The upshot is that all four elements present in Gordon 
are present here: (1) an area of conduct squarely within the 
heartland of securities regulations; (2) clear and adequate 
SEC authority to regulate; (3) active and ongoing agency 
regulation; and (4) a serious conﬂict between the antitrust 
and  regulatory  regimes.  We  therefore  conclude  that  the 
securities laws are “clearly incompatible” with the applica­
tion of the antitrust laws in this context. 
The Second Circuit’s contrary judgment is 
Reversed. 
Justice Kennedy took no part in the consideration or 
decision of this case. 
Justice Stevens, concurring in the judgment. 
When investment bankers cooperate in underwriting an 
initial public offering (IPO), they increase the amount of cap­
ital available to ﬁrms producing goods and services and make 
additional securities available for purchase.  By agglomerat­
ing networks of investors and spreading the risk of overvalu­
ation, syndicates make positive contributions to the economy 
that could not be achieved through independent action.  See 
426 F. 3d 130, 137–138 (CA2 2005).  In my view, agreements 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
286  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Stevens, J., concurring in judgment 
among underwriters on how best to market IPOs, including 
agreements on price and other terms of sale to initial inves­
tors, should be treated as procompetitive joint ventures for 
purposes of antitrust analysis.  In all but the rarest of cases, 
they cannot be conspiracies in restraint of trade within the 
meaning of § 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1. 
After the initial purchase, the prices of newly issued stocks 
or bonds are determined by competition among the vast mul­
titude of other securities traded in a free market.  To sug­
gest that an underwriting syndicate can restrain trade in 
that market by manipulating the terms of IPOs is frivolous. 
See United States v. Morgan, 118 F. Supp. 621, 689 (SDNY 
1953)  (Medina,  J.)  (“[T]he  syndicate  system  has  no  effect 
whatever on general market prices, nor do the participating 
underwriters and dealers intend it to have any.  On the con­
trary, it is the general market prices of securities of compa­
rable rating and quality which control the public offering 
price . . . .  The particular issue, even if a large one, is but 
an inﬁnitesimal unit of trade in the ocean of security issues 
running into the billions, which constitutes the general mar­
ket”); see also Hovenkamp, Antitrust Violations in Securities 
Markets, 28 J. Corp. L. 607, 615–618 (2003).  It is possible, 
of course, that the practices described in the complaints in 
these two cases may have enabled the underwriters to divert 
some  of  the  beneﬁts  of  the  offerings  from  the  issuers  to 
themselves, thus breaching the agents’ ﬁduciary obligations 
to their principals.  But if such an injury did occur, it is not 
an “antitrust injury” giving rise to a damages claim by inves­
tors.  See Brunswick Corp. v. Pueblo Bowl-O-Mat, Inc., 429 
U. S. 477, 489 (1977). 
Nor do I believe that the so-called “laddering” and “tying” 
described  in  the  complaints  constitute  vertical  restraints 
that violate either the Sherman Act or § 2(c) of the 
Robinson-Patman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 13(c).  Given the magni­
tude of the market these practices are alleged to have inﬂu­
enced, I think it obvious as a matter of law that there has 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  287 
Thomas, J., dissenting 
been no injury to any relevant competition.  Unlike in Bell 
Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U. S. 544 (2007), there is no 
need to engage in discovery to determine whether there is 
any merit to the plaintiffs’ claims.  See id., at 593–595 (Ste­
vens, J., dissenting). 
The  defendants  moved  to  dismiss for  failure  to  state  a 
claim on the ground, among others, that the plaintiffs’ claims 
challenge “the ordinary activities of participants in under­
writing syndicates, which are recognized to be completely 
lawful  and  pro-competitive.”  Record,  Doc.  98,  p.  72.  I 
agree and would hold, as we did in Parker v.  Brown, 317 
U. S. 341, 351–352 (1943), that the defendants’ alleged con­
duct does not violate the antitrust laws, rather than holding 
that Congress has implicitly granted them immunity from 
those laws.  Surely I would not suggest, as the Court did in 
Twombly, and as it does again today, that either the burdens 
of antitrust litigation or the risk “that antitrust courts are 
likely  to  make  unusually  serious  mistakes,”  ante,  at  282, 
should play any role in the analysis of the question of law 
presented in a case such as this. 
Accordingly, I concur in the Court’s judgment but not in 
its opinion. 
Justice Thomas, dissenting. 
The Court believes it must decide whether the securities 
laws  implicitly  preclude  application  of  the  antitrust  laws 
because  the  securities  statutes  “are  silent  in  respect  to 
antitrust.”  See  ante,  at  271.  I  disagree  with  that  basic 
premise.  The securities statutes are not silent.  Both the 
Securities  Act  and  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  contain 
broad saving clauses that preserve rights and remedies ex­
isting outside of the securities laws. 
Section 16 of the Securities Act of 1933 states that “the 
rights and remedies provided by this subchapter shall be in 
addition to any and all other rights and remedies that may 
exist at law or in equity.”  15 U. S. C. § 77p(a).  In parallel 

