

818  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
SCALIA, J., dissenting
this way is just part of determining whether the Sherman
Act prohibits the conduct at issue.9
In sum, the practice of using international law to limit the
extraterritorial reach of statutes is firmly established in our
jurisprudence.  In proceeding to apply that practice to the
present cases,  I  shall  rely on  the Restatement  (Third) for
the relevant principles  of international law.  Its standards
appear fairly supported  in the decisions  of this  Court con-
struing  international  choice-of-law  principles  (Lauritzen,
Romero, and McCulloch) and in the decisions of other fed-
eral  courts, especially  Timberlane.  Whether the Restate-
ment precisely reflects international law in every detail mat-
ters little here, as I believe this litigation would be resolved
the same way under virtually any conceivable test that takes
account of foreign regulatory interests.
Under the Restatement, a nation having some "basis" for
jurisdiction to prescribe law should nonetheless refrain from
exercising that jurisdiction "with respect to a person or ac-
tivity having connections with another state when the exer-
cise  of  such  jurisdiction  is  unreasonable."  Restatement
(Third) §403(1).  The  "reasonableness"  inquiry  turns  on a
number of factors including, but not limited to: "the extent
to which the activity takes place within the territory [of the
regulating  state],"  id., §403(2)(a);  "the connections, such  as
nationality, residence, or economic activity, between the reg-
ulating state and the person principally  responsible for the
9Some antitrust courts, including the Court of Appeals in the present
cases, have mistaken the comity at issue for the "comity of courts," which
has led them to characterize the question presented as one of "abstention,"
that is, whether they should "exercise or decline jurisdiction."  Manning-
ton Mills, Inc. v. Congo leum Corp., 595 F. 2d 1287, 1294, 1296 (CA3 1979);
see also In re Insurance Antitrust Litigation, 938 F. 2d 919, 932 (CA9
1991).  As I shall discuss, that seems to be the error the Court has fallen
into today.  Because courts are generally reluctant to refuse the exercise
of conferred jurisdiction, confusion on this seemingly theoretical point can
have the very practical consequence of greatly expanding the extraterrito-
rial reach of the Sherman Act.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
SCALIA, J., dissenting
activity  to be regulated,"  id.,  §403(2)(b);  "the character  of
the activity to be regulated, the importance  of regulation to
the regulating state, the extent to which  other states regu-
late such activities, and the degree to which the desirability
of such regulation is generally accepted," id., § 403(2)(c); "the
extent to which another state may have an interest in reg-
ulating the activity,"  id., §403(2)(g);  and  "the  likelihood  of
conflict  with  regulation  by  another  state,"  id.,  §403(2)(h).
Rarely would these factors point more clearly against appli-
cation  of United  States  law.  The  activity  relevant  to the
counts at issue here took place primarily in the United King-
dom, and the defendants in these counts are British corpora-
tions  and  British  subjects  having  their principal  place  of
business  or  residence  outside  the  United  States.0  Great
Britain has established a comprehensive  regulatory scheme
governing the London reinsurance markets, and clearly has
a heavy "interest in regulating the activity,"  id., § 403(2)(g).
See 938 F. 2d, at 932-933; In re Insurance Antitrust Litiga-
tion, 723 F. Supp. 464, 487-488  (ND Cal.  1989);  see  also J.
Butler & R. Merkin, Reinsurance  Law A.1.1-02 (1992).  Fi-
nally, § 2(b) of the McCarran-Ferguson Act allows state regu-
latory statutes to override the Sherman Act in the insurance
field, subject only to the narrow "boycott" exception set forth
in § 3(b)-suggesting that "the  importance  of regulation  to
the  [United  States],"  Restatement  (Third)  §403(2)(c),  is
slight.  Considering  these factors,  I  think it unimaginable
that  an  assertion  of legislative  jurisdiction  by  the United
States  would  be  considered  reasonable,  and  therefore  it is
inappropriate  to  assume, in  the  absence  of statutory  indi-
cation  to  the  contrary,  that  Congress  has  made  such  an
assertion.
10S ome of the British corporations are subsidiaries of American corpora-
tions, and the Court of Appeals held that "[t]he interests of Britain are at
least diminished where the parties are subsidiaries of American corpora-
tions."  Id., at 933.  In effect, the Court of Appeals pierced the corporate
veil in weighing the interests at stake.  I do not think that was proper.

NEW PAGE

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
SCAUA, J., dissenting
It is evident from what I have said that the Court's comity
analysis, which proceeds as though the issue is whether the
courts should "decline to exercise ...  jurisdiction,"  ante, at
798, rather than whether the Sherman Act covers this con-
duct, is simply misdirected.  I do not at all agree, moreover,
with the Court's conclusion that the issue of the substantive
scope of the Sherman Act is not in the cases.  See ante, at
796, n. 22; ante, at 797, n. 24.  To be sure, the parties did not
make  a  clear distinction  between  adjudicative jurisdiction
and  the scope  of the statute.  Parties often  do not, as we
have observed (and have declined to punish with procedural
default)  before.  See  the  excerpt  from  Lauritzen quoted
supra, at 812; see also Romero, 358 U. S.,  at 359.  It is not
realistic, and also not helpful, to pretend that the only really
relevant  issue  in  this  litigation  is  not  before  us.  In  any
event, if one erroneously chooses, as the Court does, to make
adjudicative jurisdiction (or, more precisely, abstention) the
vehicle for taking account of the needs of prescriptive comity,
the Court still  gets  it  wrong.  It concludes  that  no ."true
conflict"  counseling nonapplication  of United  States law  (or
rather, as it thinks, United States judicial jurisdiction) exists
unless compliance with United States law would constitute a
violation of another country's law.  Ante, at 798-799.  That
breathtakingly  broad  proposition,  which  contradicts  the
many  cases  discussed  earlier,  will bring  the Sherman  Act
and other laws into sharp and unnecessary  conflict with the
legitimate interests of other countries-particularly our clos-
est trading partners.
In  the  sense  in which  the term  "conflic[t]"  was  used  in
Lauritzen, 345 U. S., at 582, 592, and is generally understood
in the field of conflicts of laws,  there is  clearly a conflict  in
this litigation.  The  petitioners  here, like the  defendant in
Lauritzen, were not compelled  by any  foreign law to take
their allegedly wrongful actions, but that no more precludes
a conflict-of-laws  analysis here than it did there.  See id., at
575-576  (detailing  the  differences  between  foreign  and

