

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  43 
Opinion of the Court 
ful, such as those that are the product of a true monopoly or 
a marketwide conspiracy, see, e. g., United States v.  Para­
mount Pictures, Inc., 334 U. S. 131, 145–146 (1948), that con­
clusion must be supported by proof of power in the relevant 
market rather than by a mere presumption thereof.4 
V 
Rather than arguing that we should retain the rule of per 
se  illegality,  respondent  contends  that  we  should  endorse 
a  rebuttable  presumption  that  patentees  possess  market 
power  when  they  condition  the  purchase  of  the  patented 
product on an agreement to buy unpatented goods exclu­
sively from the patentee.  Cf. supra, at 37–38.  Respondent 
recognizes that a large number of valid patents have little, 
if any, commercial signiﬁcance, but submits that those that 
are used to impose tying arrangements on unwilling purchas­
ers likely do exert signiﬁcant market power.  Hence, in re­
spondent’s view, the presumption would have no impact on 
patents of only slight value and would be justiﬁed, subject 
to being rebutted by evidence offered by the patentee, in 
cases in which the patent has sufﬁcient value to enable the 
patentee to insist on acceptance of the tie. 
Respondent also offers a narrower alternative, suggesting 
that we differentiate between tying arrangements involving 
the simultaneous purchase of two products that are arguably 
two components of a single product—such as the provision of 
4 Our imposition of this requirement accords with the vast majority of 
academic literature on the subject.  See, e. g., 10 Areeda ¶ 1737a (“[T]here 
is no economic basis for inferring any amount of market power from the 
mere fact that the defendant holds a valid patent”); Burchﬁel, Patent Mis­
use and Antitrust Reform: “Blessed be the Tie?” 4 Harv. J. L. & Tech. 1, 
57, and n. 340 (1991) (noting that the market power presumption has been 
extensively criticized and citing sources); 1 H. Hovenkamp, M. Janis, & M. 
Lemley, IP and Antitrust § 4.2a (2005 Supp.) (“[C]overage of one’s product 
with  an  intellectual  property  right  does  not  confer  a  monopoly”); 
W. Landes & R. Posner, The Economic Structure of Intellectual Property 
Law 374 (2003) (hereinafter Landes & Posner). 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
44  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
surgical services and anesthesiology in the same operation, 
Jefferson Parish, 466 U. S., at 43 (O’Connor, J., concurring in 
judgment), or the licensing of one copyrighted ﬁlm on condi­
tion that the licensee take a package of several ﬁlms in the 
same transaction, Loew’s, 371 U. S. 38—and a tying arrange­
ment involving the purchase of unpatented goods over a pe­
riod of time, a so-called “requirements tie.”  See also Brief 
for Barry Nalebuff et al. as Amici Curiae.  According to 
respondent, we should recognize a presumption of market 
power when faced with the latter type of arrangements be­
cause they provide a means for charging large volume pur­
chasers a higher royalty for use of the patent than small 
purchasers must pay, a form of discrimination that “is strong 
evidence of market power.”  Brief for Respondent 27; see 
generally Jefferson Parish, 466 U. S., at 15, n. 23 (discussing 
price discrimination of this sort and citing sources). 
The  opinion  that  imported  the  “patent  equals  market 
power” presumption into our antitrust jurisprudence, how­
ever, provides no support for respondent’s proposed alter­
native.  In International Salt, it was the existence of the 
patent on the tying product, rather than the use of a require­
ments tie, that led the Court to presume market power.  332 
U. S., at 395 (“The appellant’s patents confer a limited mo­
nopoly of the invention they reward”).  Moreover, the re­
quirements tie in that case did not involve any price discrimi­
nation between large volume and small volume purchasers 
or evidence of noncompetitive pricing.  Instead, the leases 
at issue provided that if any competitor offered salt, the tied 
product, at a lower price, “the lessee should be free to buy 
in the open market, unless appellant would furnish the salt 
at an equal price.”  Id., at 396. 
As we have already noted, the vast majority of academic 
literature recognizes that a patent does not necessarily con­
fer market power.  See n. 4, supra.  Similarly, while price 
discrimination may provide evidence of market power, par­
ticularly  if  buttressed  by  evidence  that  the  patentee  has 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  45 
Opinion of the Court 
charged an above-market price for the tied package, see, e. g., 
10 Areeda ¶ 1769c, it is generally recognized that it also oc­
curs in fully competitive markets, see, e. g., Baumol & Swan­
son, The New Economy and Ubiquitous Competitive Price 
Discrimination:  Identifying  Defensible  Criteria  of  Market 
Power, 70 Antitrust L. J. 661, 666 (2003); 9 Areeda ¶ 1711; 
Landes & Posner 374–375.  We are not persuaded that the 
combination of these two factors should give rise to a pre­
sumption of market power when neither is sufﬁcient to do 
so standing alone.  Rather, the lesson to be learned from 
International  Salt  and  the  academic  commentary  is  the 
same: Many tying arrangements, even those involving pat­
ents and requirements ties, are fully consistent with a free, 
competitive  market.  For  this  reason,  we  reject  both  re­
spondent’s proposed rebuttable presumption and their nar­
rower alternative. 
It is no doubt the virtual consensus among economists that 
has persuaded the enforcement agencies to reject the posi­
tion that the Government took when it supported the per se 
rule that the Court adopted in the 1940’s.  See supra, at 39. 
In antitrust guidelines issued jointly by the Department of 
Justice and the Federal Trade Commission in 1995, the en­
forcement agencies stated that in the exercise of their prose­
cutorial  discretion  they  “will  not  presume  that  a  patent, 
copyright, or trade secret necessarily confers market power 
upon its owner.”  U. S. Dept. of Justice and FTC, Antitrust 
Guidelines for the Licensing of Intellectual Property § 2.2 
(Apr. 6, 1995), http://www.usdoj.gov/atr/public/guidelines/ 
0558.pdf (as visited Feb. 24, 2006, and available in Clerk of 
Court’s case ﬁle).  While that choice is not binding on the 
Court, it would be unusual for the Judiciary to replace the 
normal rule of lenity that is applied in criminal cases with a 
rule of severity for a special category of antitrust cases. 
Congress, the antitrust enforcement agencies, and most 
economists have all reached the conclusion that a patent does 
not  necessarily  confer  market  power  upon  the  patentee. 

