OCTOBER  TERM, 2003
Syllabus
UNITED  STATES POSTAL  SERVICE  v.  FLAMINGO
INDUSTRIES  (USA) LTD. ET  AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 02-1290.  Argued December 1, 2003-Decided February 25, 2004
After their contract to make mail sacks for the United States Postal Serv-
ice was terminated, respondents  brought this suit alleging, inter alia,
that the Postal Service had sought to suppress competition and create
a monopoly in mail sack production.  The District Court dismissed the
antitrust  claims,  concluding  that  the  Postal  Service  is  not  subject
to liability under federal  antitrust law.  The Ninth  Circuit reversed,
holding that the Postal  Service can  be liable but that it has a limited
immunity from antitrust liability for conduct undertaken at Congress'
command.
Held: The Postal  Service  is not  subject to  antitrust liability.  In both
form and function, it is not a separate antitrust person from the United
States but is part of the Government, and so is not controlled by the
antitrust laws.  Pp. 739-748.
(a) The waiver of immunity from suit provided by the Postal Reorga-
nization Act (PRA)-which gives the Postal Service the power "to sue
and be sued in its official name," 39 U. S.C. §401-does not suffice by
its own terms to subject the Postal Service to liability under the Sher-
man Act.  The two-step analysis of FDIC v. Meyer, 510 U. S.4 71, 484,
applies here.  Meyer's first step is met because the PRA's sue-and-be-
sued clause effects a waiver of sovereign immunity for actions against
the Postal  Service.  However, Meyer's second  step  for finding liabil-
ity-whether the Sherman Act's substantive  prohibitions apply to the
Postal Service-is not satisfied.  The Sherman Act imposes liability on
any 'person,"  defined "to include corporations and associations existing
under or authorized by the laws of...  the United States."  15 U. S. C.
§ 7.  In holding that the  United States is not a person authorized  to
bring a treble-damages claim for its own alleged antitrust injury under
the Sherman Act, United States v. Cooper Corp., 312 U. S.6 00, 606-607,
this  Court observed  that, if the definition  of 'person"  included  the
United States, the Government would be exposed to liability as an anti-
trust defendant, a result Congress could not have intended, id., at 607,
609.  Although the antitrust statutes were later amended to allow the
United States to bring antitrust suits, see 15 U. S. C. § 15a, Congress did
not thereby change the statutory definition  of "person."  So, Cooper's

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Syllabus
conclusion that the United States is not an antitrust "person," in partic-
ular not a person who can be an antitrust defendant, was unaltered by
Congress' action; indeed, the means Congress used to amend the anti-
trust law implicitly ratified  Cooper's conclusion that the United States
is not a proper antitrust defendant.  Pp. 739-746.
(b)  For purposes of the antitrust laws, the  Postal Service  is not a
separate  person from the  United  States.  The PRA's  designation  of
the Postal Service as an "independent  establishment of the executive
branch of the Government of the United States," 39 U. S. C. § 201, is not
consistent with the idea that the Postal  Service  is an entity existing
outside  the Government.  Indeed,  the  designation indicates  just the
contrary.  The PRA gives the Postal Service a high degree of independ-
ence from other Government offices, but it remains part of the Govern-
ment.  The Sherman Act defines "person" to include corporations,  15
U. S. C. § 7, and had Congress chosen to create the Postal Service as a
federal corporation, the Court would have to ask whether the Sherman
Act's definition extends to the federal entity under this part of the defi-
nitional text.  Congress, however, declined to create the Postal Service
as a Government corporation, opting instead for an independent estab-
lishment.  The choice of words likely was more informed than unconsid-
ered, because Congress debated proposals to make  the Postal Service
a Government  corporation  before it enacted the PRA.  Although the
PRA refers explicitly to various federal statutes and specifies that the
Postal Service is exempt from some and subject to others, 39 U. S. C.
§§ 409-410, it makes no mention of the Sherman Act or the antitrust
laws.  This silence leads to no helpful inference one way or the other
on the question at issue.  However, the other considerations the Court
has discussed lead to the conclusion that, absent an express congres-
sional statement that the Postal Service can be sued for antitrust viola-
tions despite its status as an independent establishment of the Govern-
ment, the PRA does not subject the Postal Service to antitrust liability.
This conclusion is consistent with the nationwide, public responsibilities
of the Postal Service, which has different goals from private corpora-
tions, the most important being that it does not seek profits, § 3621.  It
also has broader obligations, including the provision of universal mail
delivery and free mail delivery to certain classes of persons,  §§3201-
3405, and, most recently, increased public responsibilities related to na-
tional  security.  Finally, the Postal  Service  has  many  powers  more
characteristic  of Government than of private enterprise, including its
state-conferred monopoly on mail delivery, § 601 et seq., and the powers
of eminent  domain and  to conclude  international  postal  agreements,
§§401, 407.  On  the other hand, but in ways still relevant to the anti-
trust  laws'  nonapplicability,  the  Postal  Service's  powers  are  more

NEW PAGE

738  POSTAL SERVICE v. FLAMINGO  INDUSTRIES  (USA)  LTD.
Opinion of the Court
limited than those of private businesses, since it lacks the power unilat-
erally to set prices or to close a post office, § 404.  Its public characteris-
tics and responsibilities indicate it should be treated under the antitrust
laws as part of the Government, not a market participant separate from
it.  The fact that the Postal Service operates some nonpostal lines of
business beyond  the scope of its mail monopoly and universal service
obligation does not alter this conclusion.  Pp. 746-748.
302 F. 3d 985, reversed.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.
Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued  the cause  for
petitioner.  With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
Olson, Assistant Attorney General Keisler, Lisa S. Blatt,
and Mark B. Stern.
Harold J  Krent argued the cause for respondents.  With
him on the brief were Angela Wah and George P. Eshoo.*
JUSTICE KENNEDY  delivered the opinion of the Court.
This  case  requires  us  to  consider  whether  the  United
States Postal Service is subject to liability under the federal
antitrust laws.
Flamingo  Industries  (USA)  Ltd.,  a private  corporation,
and its owner and principal officer are the respondents here.
Flamingo had been making mail sacks for the Postal Service,
but then its contract was terminated.  The respondents sued
in  United  States  District  Court  alleging  that  the  Postal
Service had sought to suppress competition and create a mo-
nopoly in mail sack production.  (They also brought  claims
against the  Postal  Service  under  federal  procurement  law
and state law, but those claims are not before us.)  The Dis-
*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Trucking Associations, Inc., by Drew S. Days III, Beth S. Brinkmann,
Seth M. Galanter,P  aul T Friedman, and Robert Digges, Jr.; for Postal-
Watch, Inc., by William S. Stancil;a nd for the Washington Legal Founda-
tion et al. by Alan Charles Raul, Daniel J Popeo, and Paul D. Kamenar.
Nicholas M. Fobe filed a brief for the Center for the Advancement  of
Capitalism as amicus curiae.

