

422  NATIONAL RAILROAD  PASSENGER CORPORATION  v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
agency's  statutory interpretation,  even when the statute is
one authorizing condemnation of private property.  In short,
the principle advanced  by B&M does not prevail over Chev-
ron's rule of deference.
We  also  reject  B&M's  constitutional  objections.  B&M
claims  that § 562(d) as interpreted  by  the Commission vio-
lates the "public use" requirement of the Fifth Amendment's
Takings  Clause,  because  the transaction  leaves  unchanged
the use  made by Amtrak of the condemned  track.  B&M's
position cannot be reconciled with our precedents.  We have
held that the public use requirement of the Takings  Clause
is  coterminous  with  the  regulatory  power,  and  that  the
Court will not strike down a condemnation on the basis that
it lacks a public use so long as the taking "is  rationally re-
lated  to  a  conceivable  public  purpose."  Hawaii Housing
Authority v. Midkiff, 467 U. S. 229, 240-241 (1984);  see also
Berman v. Parker, 348  U. S. 26,  32-34 (1954).  In Midkiff
we upheld land reform legislation which authorized condem-
nations for the specific purpose of transferring ownership to
another private party, in order to eliminate a land oligopoly.
In Berman we permitted land condemnations which contem-
plated reselling the land to redevelopers, as part of a plan to
restore dilapidated sections of the District of Columbia.  In
both Midkiff and Berman, as in the present case, condemna-
tion resulted in the transfer of ownership from one  private
party to another, with the basic use of the property by the
government  remaining  unchanged.  The  Court  held  these
exercises of the condemnation power to be constitutional, as
long as the condemning authorities were rational in their po-
sitions that some public  purpose was  served.  Those  hold-
ings control here, for there can be no serious argument that
the ICC was irrational in determining that the condemnation
will serve a public purpose by facilitating Amtrak's rail serv-
ice.  That suffices  to satisfy the Constitution, and  we need
not make a specific factual determination  whether the con-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
demnation  will  accomplish  its  objectives.  Midkiff, supra,
at 242-243.
As  a last  effort,  B&M  argues  that  this  matter must  be
remanded  to the ICC because the Commission did not make
adequate  and accurate  findings regarding  several  different
matters.  B&M claims that Amtrak failed to prove the par-
ties  were "'unable'  to  agree" on  terms of sale.  In  B&M's
view, § 562(d) demands that Amtrak engage in "good faith...
negotiations" before it may invoke its condemnation powers.
Brief for Respondent B&M 42.  The ICC construed the lan-
guage of § 562(d) in a more narrow fashion, to mandate noth-
ing more than  a factual determination  that the parties will
not be able to reach agreement through further negotiations.
App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 90-1419, pp. 130a-131a ("Noth-
ing in this record provides  any indication that Amtrak and
B&M will ever reach agreement on terms of sale").  This is
a  reasonable  interpretation of the phrase  "unable  to  agree
upon terms for the sale," and we do not substitute a different
view.  Thus the Commission did not err in concluding  that
this statutory prerequisite was satisfied.
B&M argues further that the ICC made inadequate factual
findings in concluding:  (1) that this conveyance  will not sig-
nificantly  impair B&M's ability  to carry out its obligations
as  a  common  carrier,  §5 62(d)(1)(A);  and  (2)  that  Amtrak's
obligations  cannot be met by the acquisition  of alternative
property, § 562(d)(1)(B).  As to significant impairment, B&M's
argument, like the decision  of the Court of Appeals on this
point, 286 U. S. App. D. C., at 8-9, 911 F. 2d, at 750-751, relies
on the notion that in assessing impairment the ICC may con-
sider only the conveyance itself, not any mitigating measures
adopted in response to the conveyance,  such as the grant of
trackage  rights  to  B&M.  We  find no  basis in  the text or
structure of § 562(d) for this position and cannot say that the
statute must be  interpreted  to mandate  such  a  restrictive
inquiry.  The ICC was not unreasonable  in considering the
effect of the "trackage  rights" agreements and the just com-

NEW PAGE

424  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE  CORP.
WHITE, J., dissenting
pensation award in assessing significant impairment; and the
ICC's conclusion, that B&M's ability to carry out its common
carrier obligations will not be impaired by the transaction in
any  significant  way, is supported  by  substantial  evidence.
As to the availability of alternative property, the ICC inter-
preted that provision as referring only to whether Amtrak
could provide service using an alternative route, not whether
a lesser interest in property would suffice to meet Amtrak's
needs.  Again, this  was  a reasonable  reading  to which  we
defer.  Since  B&M would  have to prevail on both  the sig-
nificant impairment and alternative property issues to rebut
Amtrak's presumption of need, there can be  no doubt that
the ICC's finding that Amtrak established  its need for the
property must be affirmed.
III
For the reasons we have stated, we hold that the ICC did
not exceed its authority in ordering conveyance of the 48.8-
mile segment of the Conn River Line from B&M to Amtrak.
Because  of its  contrary holding on this point, the Court of
Appeals did not address the parties' challenges to the ICC's
just  compensation  finding as  well  as  certain  other issues.
Id., at 11,  911  F. 2d, at 753.  These questions should be re-
solved  on remand.  The judgment of the Court of Appeals
is reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceed-
ings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE  WHITE,  with  whom  JUSTICE  BLACKMUN  and
JUSTICE THOMAS join, dissenting.
The  majority opinion proceeds  from  the well-established
principle  that courts should defer to permissible agency in-
terpretations  of ambiguous  legislation.1  Chevron  U. S. A.
II agree with the majority that the Court of Appeals erred in concluding
that § 402(d) of the Rail Passenger Service Act (RPSA), 45 U. S. C. § 562(d),
unambiguously  prohibits transactions such as the sale and leaseback ar-

