OCTOBER  TERM, 2003
Syllabus
VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF  CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 02-682.  Argued October 14, 2003-Decided January 13, 2004
The Telecommunications  Act of 1996 imposes upon an incumbent local ex-
change carrier (LEC) the obligation to share its telephone network with
competitors, 47 U. S. C. §251(c), including the duty to provide access to
individual network elements  on an "unbundled"  basis, see  §251(c)(3).
New entrants, so-called competitive LECs, combine and resell these un-
bundled network  elements  (UNEs).  Petitioner  Verizon  Communica-
tions Inc., the incumbent LEC in New York State, has signed intercon-
nection agreements with rivals such as AT&T, as § 252 obliges it to do,
detailing the terms on which it will make its network elements available.
Part of Verizon's § 251(c)(3) UNE obligation is the provision of access to
operations support systems (OSS), without which a rival cannot fill its
customers' orders.  Verizon's  interconnection agreement, approved by
the New York Public Service Commission (PSC), and its authorization to
provide long-distance service, approved by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC), each specified the mechanics by which its OSS obli-
gation would be met.  When competitive LECs complained that Veri-
zon was violating that  obligation, the PSC and FCC opened parallel
investigations, which led to the imposition .of financial penalties, remedi-
ation measures, and additional reporting requirements on Verizon.  Re-
spondent, a local telephone  service customer  of AT&T, then fied this
class action alleging, inter alia,t hat Verizon had filled rivals' orders on
a discriminatory basis as part of an anticompetitive  scheme to discour-
age customers  from becoming or remaining customers  of competitive
LECs in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 2.  The Dis-
trict Court dismissed the complaint, concluding that respondent's allega-
tions of deficient assistance to rivals failed to satisfy § 2's requirements.
The Second Circuit reinstated the antitrust claim.
Held: Respondent's complaint alleging breach of an incumbent LEC's 1996
Act duty to share its network with competitors does not state a claim
under § 2 of the Sherman Act.  Pp. 405-416.
(a) The 1996 Act has no effect upon the application of traditional anti-
trust principles.  Its saving clause-which provides  that "nothing in
this Act... shall be construed to modify, impair, or supersede the appli-
cability of any of the antitrust laws," 47 U. S. C. § 152, note-preserves

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Syllabus
claims that satisfy established antitrust standards, but does not create
new claims that go beyond those standards.  Pp. 405-407.
(b) The activity of which respondent complains does not Violate pre-
existing antitrust standards.  The leading case imposing § 2 liability for
refusal to deal with competitors is Aspen Skiing Co. v. Aspen Highlands
Skiing Corp., 472 U. S. 585, in which the Court concluded that the de-
fendant's termination of a voluntary agreement with the plaintiff sug-
gested a willingness to forsake short-term profits to achieve an anticom-
petitive end.  Aspen is at or near the outer boundary of § 2 liability, and
the present case does not fit within the limited exception it recognized.
Because the complaint does not allege that Verizon ever engaged in a
voluntary course of dealing with its rivals, its prior conduct sheds no
light upon whether its lapses from the legally compelled dealing were
anticompetitive.  Moreover, the Aspen defendant turned down its com-
petitor's proposal to sell at its own retail price, suggesting a calculation
that its future monopoly retail price would be higher, whereas Verizon's
reluctance to interconnect at the cost-based rate of compensation avail-
able under § 251(c)(3) is uninformative.  More fundamentally, the Aspen
defendant refused to provide its competitor with a product it already
sold at retail, whereas here the unbundled elements offered pursuant to
§251(c)(3)  are not available  to the public, but are  provided  to rivals
under compulsion and at considerable expense.  The Court's conclusion
would not change even if it considered to be established law the "essen-
tial facilities" doctrine crafted by some lower courts.  The indispensable
requirement for invoking that doctrine is the unavailability of access to
the "essential facilities"; where access exists, as it does here by virtue
of the 1996 Act, the doctrine serves no purpose.  Pp. 407-411.
(c) Traditional antitrust principles do not justify adding the present
case to the few existing exceptions from the proposition that there is no
duty to aid competitors.  Antitrust analysis must always be attuned to
the  particular  structure  and circumstances  of the industry  at issue.
When there exists a regulatory structure designed to deter and remedy
anticompetitive harm, the additional benefit to competition provided by
antitrust enforcement will tend to be small, and it will be less plausible
that the antitrust laws contemplate such additional scrutiny.  Here Ver-
izon was subject to oversight by the FCC and the PSC, both of which
agencies responded to the OSS failure raised in respondent's complaint\
by imposing fines  and other burdens on Verizon.  Against the slight
benefits of antitrust intervention here must be weighed  a realistic as-
sessment of its costs.  Allegations of violations of § 251(c)(3) duties are
both technical and extremely numerous, and hence difficult for antitrust
courts  to  evaluate.  Applying  §2's requirements  to  this regime  can
readily result in "false positive" mistaken inferences that chill the very

NEW PAGE

400  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
Syllabus
conduct the antitrust laws are designed to protect.  Matsushita Elec.
Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S. 574, 594.  Pp. 411-416.
305 F. 3d 89, reversed and remanded.
SCALIA, J.,  delivered  the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J.,  and  O'CONNOR,  KENNEDY,  GINSBURG,  and  BREYER,  JJ., joined.
STEVENS, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which SOUTER
and THOMAS, JJ., joined, post, p. 416.
Richard G. Taranto argued the cause for petitioner.  With
him  on  the briefs  were  John Thorne, Michael K. Kellogg,
Mark C. Hansen, Aaron M. Panner,a nd Henry B. Gutman.
Solicitor General Olson argued the cause for the United
States et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.  With him on
the  brief  were  Acting  Assistant Attorney  General Pate,
Deputy  Solicitor General  Clement,  Jeffrey  A.  Lamken,
Catherine G.  O'Sullivan, Nancy  C. Garrison, and David
Seidman.
Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., argued the cause for respondent.
With  him  on  the  brief  were  Alice  McInerney, Bruce V
Spiva, Ian Heath Gershengorn, Marc A.  Goldman, Elaine
J  Goldenberg, and Chester T Kamin.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal  were filed  for the Common-
wealth of Virginia et al. by Jerry W Kilgore, Attorney General of Virginia,
William H. Hurd, State Solicitor, Maureen Riley Matsen and William
E. Thro, Deputy State Solicitors, Judith Williams Jagdmann, Deputy At-
torney General, C. Meade Browder, Jr., Senior Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral, and Sarah Oxenham Allen and Raymond L. Doggett, Jr., Assistant
Attorneys  General,  and by the Attorneys  General  for their  respective
States as follows:  William H.  Pryor,J r., of Alabama, M. Jane Brady of
Delaware,  Steve  Carter of Indiana,  Jon Bruning of Nebraska,  Peter
W Heed of New Hampshire,  W A  Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, and
Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah; for BellSouth Corp. et al. by Stephen M. Sha-
piro, John E. Muench, Jeffrey W Sarles, Marc Gary, Marc W. F Galonsky,
and William M. Schur; for the Communications Workers of America by
Patrick M. Scanlon, Andrew D. Roth, and Laurence Gold; for the Tele-
communications Industry Association by Donald I. Baker; for United Par-
cel  Service,  Inc.,  et al. by Drew S. Days III, W  Stephen Smith, Beth
S. Brinkmann, Paul T Friedman,a nd Peter M. Kreindler;f or the United

