546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
164  OCTOBER TERM, 2005 
Syllabus 
VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the eighth circuit 
No. 04–905.  Argued October 31, 2005—Decided January 10, 2006 
Reeder-Simco GMC, Inc. (Reeder), an authorized dealer of heavy-duty 
trucks manufactured by Volvo Trucks North America, Inc. (Volvo), gen­
erally sold those trucks through an industry-wide competitive bidding 
process, whereby the retail customer describes its speciﬁc product re­
quirements and invites bids from dealers it selects based on such factors 
as an existing relationship, geography, and reputation.  Once a Volvo 
dealer receives the customer’s speciﬁcations, it requests from Volvo a 
discount or “concession” off the wholesale price.  Volvo decides on a 
case-by-case basis whether to offer a concession.  The dealer then uses 
its Volvo discount in preparing its bid; it purchases trucks from Volvo 
only if and when the retail customer accepts its bid.  Reeder was one 
of many regional Volvo dealers.  Although nothing prohibits a Volvo 
dealer from bidding outside its territory, Reeder rarely bid against an­
other Volvo dealer.  In the atypical case in which a retail customer so­
licited a bid from more than one Volvo dealer, Volvo’s stated policy was 
to provide the same price concession to each dealer.  In 1997, after 
Volvo announced plans to enlarge the size of its dealers’ markets and to 
reduce by almost half the number of its dealers, Reeder learned that 
Volvo had given another dealer a price concession greater than the dis­
counts Reeder typically received. 
Reeder, suspecting it was one of the dealers Volvo sought to elimi­
nate, ﬁled this suit under, inter alia, § 2 of the Clayton Act, as amended 
by the Robinson-Patman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 13, alleging that its sales and 
proﬁts declined because Volvo offered other dealers more favorable 
price concessions.  At trial, Reeder presented evidence of two instances 
when it bid against another Volvo dealer for a particular sale.  In the 
ﬁrst, although Volvo initially offered Reeder a lower concession, Volvo 
ultimately  matched  the concession  offered  to  the competing  dealer. 
Neither dealer won the bid.  In the second, Volvo initially offered the 
two dealers the same concession, but increased the other dealer’s dis­
count after it, rather than Reeder, was selected.  Reeder dominantly 
relied on comparisons between concessions it received on four occasions 
when it bid successfully against non-Volvo dealers (and thus purchased 
Volvo trucks), with more favorable concessions other successful Volvo 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  165 
Syllabus 
dealers received in bidding processes in which Reeder did not partici­
pate.  Reeder also compared concessions Volvo offered it on several oc­
casions when it bid unsuccessfully against non-Volvo dealers (and there­
fore did not purchase Volvo trucks), with more favorable concessions 
accorded other Volvo dealers who gained contracts on which Reeder did 
not bid.  Reeder did not look for instances in which it received a larger 
concession than another Volvo dealer, but acknowledged it was “quite 
possible” that such instances occurred.  Nor did Reeder offer any sta­
tistical analysis revealing whether it was disfavored on average as com­
pared to other dealers.  The jury found a reasonable possibility that 
discriminatory pricing may have harmed competition between Reeder 
and other Volvo dealers, that Volvo’s discriminatory pricing injured 
Reeder, and that Reeder’s damages from Volvo’s Robinson-Patman vio­
lation exceeded $1.3 million.  The District Court awarded treble dam­
ages on the Robinson-Patman Act claim, and entered judgment. 
Afﬁrming, the Eighth Circuit, among other things, noted the thresh­
old requirement that Reeder show it was a “purchaser” within the Act’s 
meaning; rejected Volvo’s contention that competitive bidding situations 
do not give rise to Robinson-Patman claims; held that the four instances 
in which Reeder purchased trucks following successful bids rendered it 
a purchaser under the Act; determined that a jury could reasonably 
decide Reeder was in actual competition with favored dealers at the 
time price differentials were imposed; and held that the jury could prop­
erly ﬁnd Reeder had proved competitive injury based on evidence that 
(1) Volvo intended to reduce the number of its dealers, (2) Reeder 
lost one contract for which it competed with another Volvo dealer, 
(3) Reeder would have earned more proﬁts, had it received the conces­
sions given other dealers, and (4) Reeder’s sales declined over time. 
Held:	A manufacturer may not be held liable for secondary-line price dis­
crimination under the Robinson-Patman Act in the absence of a showing 
that the manufacturer discriminated between dealers competing to re­
sell its product to the same retail customer.  The Act does not reach 
the case Reeder presents.  It centrally addresses price discrimination 
in cases involving competition between different purchasers for resale 
of the purchased product.  Competition of that character ordinarily is 
not involved when a product subject to special order is sold through a 
customer-speciﬁc competitive bidding process.  Pp. 175–182. 
1. Section 2 was enacted to curb ﬁnancially powerful corporations’ 
use of localized price-cutting tactics that gravely impaired other sellers’ 
competitive position.  FTC v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 363 U. S. 536, 543, 
and n. 6.  Augmenting § 2, the Robinson-Patman Act targeted the per­
ceived harm to competition occasioned by the advent of large chain­

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
166  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Syllabus 
stores able to obtain lower prices for goods than smaller buyers could 
demand.  Robinson-Patman does not ban all price differences charged 
to  different  purchasers  of  similar  commodities,  but  proscribes  only 
“price discrimination [that] threatens to injure competition,” Brooke 
Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209, 220. 
Of the three categories of competitive injury that may give rise to a 
Robinson-Patman claim, secondary-line cases, like this one, involve price 
discrimination that injures competition among the discriminating sell­
er’s customers (here, Volvo’s dealerships).  Reeder has satisﬁed the 
Act’s  ﬁrst  two  requirements  for  establishing  secondary-line  injury: 
(1) The relevant Volvo truck sales were made in interstate commerce, 
and (2) the trucks were of “like grade and quality,” 15 U. S. C. §13(a). 
Because Reeder has not identiﬁed any differentially priced transaction 
in which it was both a “purchaser” under the Act and “in actual competi­
tion” with a favored purchaser for the same customer, see, e. g., FTC v. 
Sun Oil Co., 371 U. S. 505, 518–519, Volvo and amicus United States 
maintain that Reeder cannot satisfy the Act’s third and fourth require­
ments—that (3) Volvo “discriminate[d] in price between” Reeder and 
another purchaser of Volvo trucks, and (4) “the effect of such discrimina­
tion may be . . . to injure, destroy, or prevent competition” to the advan­
tage of a favored purchaser, i. e., one who “receive[d] the beneﬁt of such 
discrimination,” 15 U. S. C. § 13(a).  Absent actual competition with a 
favored Volvo dealer, Reeder cannot establish the competitive injury 
the Act requires.  Pp. 175–177. 
2. The injury to competition targeted by the Robinson-Patman Act is 
not established by the selective comparisons Reeder presented at trial: 
(1) comparisons of concessions Reeder received for four successful bids 
against  non-Volvo  dealers,  with  larger  concessions  other  successful 
Volvo dealers received for different sales on which Reeder did not bid 
(purchase-to-purchase comparisons); (2) comparisons of concessions of­
fered to Reeder in connection with several unsuccessful bids against 
non-Volvo dealers, with greater concessions accorded other Volvo deal­
ers who competed successfully for different sales on which Reeder did 
not bid (offer-to-purchase comparisons); and (3) comparisons of two occa­
sions on which Reeder bid against another Volvo dealer (head-to-head 
comparisons).  Pp. 177–180. 
(a) Because the purchase-to-purchase and offer-to-purchase com­
parisons fail to show that Volvo sold at a lower price to Reeder’s “com­
petitors,” those comparisons do not support an inference of competitive 
injury.  See Falls City Industries, Inc. v. Vanco Beverage, Inc., 460 
U. S. 428, 435.  Both types of comparisons fall short because in none 
of the discrete instances on which Reeder relied did it compete with 
beneﬁciaries of the alleged discrimination for the same customer.  Nor 

