

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
444  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
tion,” thus allowing AT&T to “preserve and maintain its mo­
nopoly control of DSL access to the Internet.”  Ibid. 
In Verizon Communications Inc. v. Law Ofﬁces of Curtis 
V. Trinko, LLP, 540 U. S. 398, 410 (2004), we held that a 
ﬁrm with no antitrust duty to deal with its rivals at all is 
under no obligation to provide those rivals with a “sufﬁcient” 
level  of  service.  Shortly  after  we  issued  that  decision, 
AT&T moved for judgment on the pleadings, arguing that 
the plaintiffs’ claims in this case were foreclosed by Trinko. 
The District Court held that AT&T had no antitrust duty to 
deal with the plaintiffs, App. to Pet. for Cert. 77a–85a, but 
it denied the motion to dismiss with respect to the price­
squeeze  claims,  id.,  at  86a–90a.  The  court  acknowledged 
that AT&T’s argument “has a certain logic to it,” but held 
that Trinko “simply does not involve price-squeeze claims.” 
App. to Pet. for Cert. 86a.  The District Court also noted 
that price-squeeze claims have been recognized by several 
Circuits and “are cognizable under existing antitrust stand­
ards.”  Id., at 89a, and n. 27. 
At  the  District  Court’s  request,  plaintiffs  then  ﬁled  an 
amended  complaint  providing  greater  detail  about  their 
price-squeeze  claims.  AT&T  again  moved  to  dismiss,  ar­
guing that price-squeeze claims could only proceed if they 
met the two established requirements for predatory pricing: 
below-cost  retail  pricing  and  a  “ ‘dangerous  probability’ ” 
that the defendant will recoup any lost proﬁts.  See Brooke 
Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 
209, 222–224 (1993).  The District Court did not reach the 
issue whether all price-squeeze claims must meet the Brooke 
Group requirements, because it concluded that the amended 
complaint, “generously construed,” satisﬁed those criteria. 
App. to Pet. for Cert. 46a–49a, 56a.  The court also certiﬁed 
its  earlier  order  for  interlocutory  appeal  on  the  question 
whether “Trinko bars price squeeze claims where the par­
ties are compelled to deal under the federal communications 
laws.”  Id., at 56a–57a. 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  445 
Opinion of the Court 
On  interlocutory  appeal,  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the 
Ninth Circuit afﬁrmed the District Court’s denial of AT&T’s 
motion for judgment on the pleadings on the price-squeeze 
claims.  linkline Communications, Inc. v. SBC California, 
Inc.,  503  F.  3d  876  (2007).  The  court  emphasized  that 
“Trinko did not involve a price squeezing theory.”  Id., at 
883.  Because “a price squeeze theory formed part of the 
fabric of traditional antitrust law prior to Trinko,” the Court 
of Appeals concluded that “those claims should remain viable 
notwithstanding either the telecommunications statutes or 
Trinko.”  Ibid.  Based on the record before it, the court 
held that plaintiffs’ original complaint stated a potentially 
valid claim under § 2 of the Sherman Act. 
Judge Gould dissented, noting that “the notion of a ‘price 
squeeze’ is itself in a squeeze between two recent Supreme 
Court precedents.”  Id., at 886.  A price-squeeze claim in­
volves allegations of both a high wholesale price and a low 
retail price, so Judge Gould analyzed each component sepa­
rately.  He concluded that “Trinko insulates from antitrust 
review the setting of the upstream price.”  Id., at 886–887. 
With respect to the downstream price, he argued that “the 
retail side of a price squeeze cannot be considered to create 
an antitrust violation if the retail pricing does not satisfy the 
requirements of Brooke Group, which set unmistakable lim­
its on what can be considered to be predatory within the 
meaning of the antitrust laws.”  Id., at 887 (citing Brooke 
Group, supra, at 222–224).  Judge Gould concluded that the 
plaintiffs’ complaint did not satisfy these requirements be­
cause it contained no allegations that the retail price was set 
below cost and that those losses could later be recouped. 
503  F.  3d,  at  887.  Judge  Gould  would  have  allowed  the 
plaintiffs  to  amend their  complaint  if  they could,  in  good 
faith,  raise  predatory  pricing  claims  meeting  the  Brooke 
Group requirements.  503 F. 3d, at 887. 
We granted certiorari, 554 U. S. 916 (2008), to resolve a 
conﬂict  over  whether  a  plaintiff  can  bring  price-squeeze 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
446  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
claims under § 2 of the Sherman Act when the defendant has 
no antitrust duty to deal with the plaintiff.  See Covad Com­
munications Co. v. Bell Atlantic Corp., 398 F. 3d 666, 673– 
674 (CADC 2005) (holding  that Trinko bars such claims). 
We reverse. 
II 
This case has assumed an unusual posture.  The plaintiffs 
now assert that they agree with Judge Gould’s dissenting 
position  that  price-squeeze  claims  must  meet  the  Brooke 
Group requirements for predatory pricing.  They ask us to 
vacate the decision below in their favor and remand with 
instructions that they be given leave to amend their com­
plaint  to  allege  a  Brooke  Group  claim.  In  other  words, 
plaintiffs are no longer pleased with their initial theory of 
the case, and ask for a mulligan to try again under a different 
theory.  Some amici argue that the case is moot in light of 
this  confession  of  error.  They  contend  that  “[w]ith  both 
petitioners and respondents now aligned on [the same] side 
of the question presented, no party with a concrete stake in 
this case’s outcome is advocating for the contrary position.” 
Brief for COMPTEL 6. 
We do not think this case is moot.  First, the parties con­
tinue to seek different relief.  AT&T asks us to reverse the 
judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand with instruc­
tions to dismiss the complaint at issue.  The plaintiffs ask 
that we vacate the judgment and remand with instructions 
that they be given leave to amend their complaint.  The par­
ties thus continue to be adverse not only in the litigation as 
a whole, but in the speciﬁc proceedings before this Court. 
Second, it is not clear that the plaintiffs have unequivocally 
abandoned their price-squeeze claims.  In their brief and at 
oral argument, the plaintiffs continue to refer to their “pric­
ing squeeze claim.”  See Brief for Respondents 13.  They 
appear  to  acknowledge  that  those  claims  must  meet  the 
Brooke Group requirements, but it is not clear whether they 
believe the necessary showing can be made in at least partial 

