551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
264  OCTOBER TERM, 2006 
Syllabus 
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC, fka CREDIT 
SUISSE FIRST BOSTON LLC, et al. v. BILLING et al. 
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the second circuit 
No. 05–1157.  Argued March 27, 2007—Decided June 18, 2007 
Respondent investors ﬁled suit, alleging that petitioner investment banks, 
acting as underwriters, violated antitrust laws when they formed syn­
dicates  to  help  execute  initial  public  offerings  for  several  hundred 
technology-related companies.  Respondents claim that the underwrit­
ers unlawfully agreed that they would not sell newly issued securities 
to a buyer unless the buyer committed (1) to buy additional shares of 
that security later at escalating prices (known as “laddering”), (2) to 
pay unusually high commissions on subsequent security purchases from 
the underwriters, or (3) to purchase from the underwriters other less 
desirable securities (known as “tying”).  The underwriters moved to 
dismiss, claiming that federal securities law impliedly precludes applica­
tion of antitrust laws to the conduct in question.  The District Court 
dismissed the complaints, but the Second Circuit reversed. 
Held: The securities law implicitly precludes the application of the anti­
trust laws to the conduct alleged in this case.  Pp. 270–285. 
(a) Where regulatory statutes are silent in respect to antitrust, courts 
must determine whether, and in what respects, they implicitly preclude 
the antitrust laws’ application.  Taken together, Silver v.  New York 
Stock Exchange, 373 U. S. 341; Gordon v. New York Stock Exchange, 
Inc., 422 U. S. 659; and United States v. National Assn. of Securities 
Dealers, Inc., 422 U. S. 694 (NASD), make clear that a court deciding 
this preclusion issue is deciding whether, given context and likely conse­
quences, there is a “clear repugnancy” between the securities law and 
the antitrust complaint, i. e., whether the two are “clearly incompatible.” 
Moreover, Gordon and NASD, in ﬁnding sufﬁcient incompatibility to 
warrant an implication of preclusion, treated as critical: (1) the existence 
of regulatory authority under the securities law to supervise the activi­
ties in question; (2) evidence that the responsible regulatory entities 
exercise that authority; and (3) a resulting risk that the securities and 
antitrust laws, if both applicable, would produce conﬂicting guidance, 
requirements, duties, privileges, or standards of conduct.  In addition, 
(4) in Gordon and NASD the possible conﬂict affected practices that lie 
squarely within an area of ﬁnancial market activity that securities law 
seeks to regulate.  Pp. 270–276. 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  265 
Syllabus 
(b) Several considerations—the underwriters’ efforts jointly to pro­
mote and sell newly issued securities is central to the proper functioning 
of well-regulated capital markets; the law grants the Securities and Ex­
change Commission (SEC) authority to supervise such activities; and 
the SEC has continuously exercised its legal authority to regulate this 
type of conduct—show that the ﬁrst, second, and fourth conditions are 
satisﬁed in this case.  This leaves the third condition: whether there is 
a conﬂict rising to the level of incompatibility.  Pp. 276–277. 
(c) The complaints here can be read as attacking the manner in which 
the underwriters jointly seek to collect “excessive” commissions 
through the practices of laddering, tying, and collecting excessive com­
missions, which according to respondents the SEC itself has already 
disapproved and, in all likelihood, will not approve in the foreseeable 
future.  Nonetheless, certain considerations, taken together, lead to the 
conclusion that securities law and antitrust law are clearly incompatible 
in this context.  Pp. 278–285. 
(1) First, to permit antitrust actions such as this threatens serious 
securities-related harm.  For one thing, a ﬁne, complex, detailed line 
separates activity that the SEC permits or encourages from activity 
that it forbids.  And the SEC has the expertise to distinguish what 
is forbidden from what is allowed.  For another thing, reasonable but 
contradictory inferences may be drawn from overlapping evidence that 
shows both unlawful antitrust activity and lawful securities marketing 
activity.  Further, there is a serious risk that antitrust courts, with 
different nonexpert judges and different nonexpert juries, will produce 
inconsistent results.  Together these factors mean there is no practical 
way to conﬁne antitrust suits so that they challenge only the kind of 
activity the investors seek to target, which is presently unlawful and 
will likely remain unlawful under the securities law.  Rather, these con­
siderations suggest that antitrust courts are likely to make unusually 
serious mistakes in this respect.  And that threat means that under­
writers must act to avoid not simply conduct that the securities law 
forbids, but also joint conduct that the securities law permits or encour­
ages.  Thus, allowing an antitrust lawsuit would threaten serious harm 
to the efﬁcient functioning of the securities market.  Pp. 279–283. 
(2) Second, any enforcement-related need for an antitrust lawsuit 
is unusually small.  For one thing, the SEC actively enforces the rules 
and regulations that forbid the conduct in question.  For another, inves­
tors harmed by underwriters’ unlawful practices may sue and obtain 
damages under the securities law.  Finally, the fact that the SEC is 
itself required to take account of competitive considerations when it cre­
ates securities-related policy and embodies it in rules and regulations 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
266  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Syllabus 
makes it somewhat less necessary to rely on antitrust actions to address 
anticompetitive behavior.  Pp. 283–284. 
(3) In sum, an antitrust action in this context is accompanied by a 
substantial risk of injury to the securities markets and by a diminished 
need for antitrust enforcement to address anticompetitive conduct.  To­
gether these considerations indicate a serious conﬂict between applica­
tion of the antitrust laws and proper enforcement of the securities law. 
The Solicitor General’s proposal to avoid this conﬂict does not convinc­
ingly address these concerns.  Pp. 284–285. 
426 F. 3d 130, reversed. 
Breyer, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., 
and Scalia, Souter, Ginsburg, and Alito, JJ., joined.  Stevens, J., 
ﬁled an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 285.  Thomas, J., 
ﬁled a dissenting opinion, post, p. 287.  Kennedy, J., took no part in the 
consideration or decision of the case. 
Stephen M. Shapiro argued the cause for petitioners. 
With him on the briefs were Kenneth S. Geller, Timothy S. 
Bishop, John P. Schmitz, Robert B. McCaw, Louis R. Cohen, 
Ali M. Stoeppelwerth, Noah A. Levine, Andrew J. Frack­
man, Timothy J. Muris, Richard G. Parker, Carter G. Phil­
lips,  A.  Robert  Pietrzak,  Andrew  B.  Clubok,  Brant  W. 
Bishop, Bradley J. Bondi, Shepard Goldfein, Preeta D. Ban­
sal, Richard A. Cirillo, Moses Silverman, Jon R. Roellke, 
Jeffrey H. Drichta, Paul Gonson, Glenn R. Reichardt, Gan­
dolfo V. DiBlasi, Penny Shane, David M. J. Rein, Randy M. 
Mastro, John A. Herfort, Steven Wolowitz, Gerald J. Fields, 
David W. Ichel, Jayma M. Meyer, John D. Donovan, Jr., and 
Robert G. Jones. 
Solicitor General Clement argued the cause for the 
United  States  as  amicus  curiae.  With  him  on  the  brief 
were Assistant Attorney General Barnett, Deputy Solici­
tor  General  Hungar,  Deputy  Assistant  Attorney  General 
Meyer, Douglas Hallward-Driemeier, Catherine G. O’Sulli­
van, Nancy C. Garrison, and Richard M. Humes. 
Christopher  Lovell  argued  the  cause  for  respondents. 
With him on the brief for respondent Billing et al. were Gary 
S. Jacobson, Melvyn I. Weiss, Howard B. Sirota, Fred Tay­

