

BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
Baseball  admits  has  been  in  existence  for  nearly  a
century, and which  the trial court expressly found was
'created  and  imposed  by the  club  owners  long before
the arrival of collective bargaining."'  Id., at 14.
I would add only that this case is in fact much clearer than
Flood, for  there the  owners sought  only  to preserve a  re-
straint  on competition  to which the union had not  agreed,
while here they seek to create one.
Adoption  of  Justice  Goldberg's  views  would  mean,  of
course, that in some instances "antitrust courts" would have
to  displace  the  authority  of the  Labor  Board.  The labor
laws  do not  exist, however,  to ensure  the perpetuation  of
the Board's authority.  That is why we have not previously
adopted the Court's position.  That is also why in other con-
texts we have not thought the mere existence of a collective-
bargaining agreement sufficient to immunize employers from
background laws that are similar to the Sherman Act.  See
FortH  alifax Packing Co. v. Coyne, 482 U. S. 1 (1987); Metro-
politan Life Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts,4 71 U. S. 724 (1985).6
6 In Teamsters v. Oliver, 358 U. S. 283 (1959), we held that a state anti-
trust law could not be used to challenge an employer-union agreement.
Justice White's opinion in Jewel Tea explains, however, that Oliver held
only that "[als  the agreement did not embody  a "'remote  and indirect
approach to the subject of wages" . . . but a direct frontal attack upon a
problem thought to threaten the maintenance of the basic wage structure
established by the collective bargaining contract,'  [358 U. S.1,  at 294, the
paramount federal policy of encouraging collective bargaining proscribed
application of the state law."  Jewel Tea Co., 381 U. S., at 690, n. 5.
Moreover,  in  the petition for  certiorari  in  Flood, Justice  Goldberg
explained that Oliver was not controlling.
"Petitioner has not addressed the contention advanced by respondents
at trial but not reached by the courts below, that the reserve system is a
matter for collective bargaining and hence exempt from state and federal
antitrust laws under Teamsters Union v. Oliver, 358 U. S. 283 (1959), and
Meat Cutters v. Jewel Tea Co., 381 U. S. 676 (1965).  Neither of these deci-
sions holds that an employer conspiracy to restrain trade is exempted from
antitrust regulation where an employee group has been implicated in the
scheme.  No  Justice participating in Meat Cutters dissented from the

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 518 U. S. 231 (1996)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
IV
Congress is free to act to exempt the anticompetitive em-
ployer conduct that we review today.  In the absence of such
action,  I do not believe  it is for us  to stretch  the limited
exemption that we have fashioned to facilitate the express
statutory exemption created for labor's benefit so that unions
must strike in order to restore a prior practice of individu-
ally negotiating  salaries.  I therefore agree with the posi-
tion that the District Court adopted below.
"Because the developmental  squad salary provisions
were  a new concept  and not a change in terms of the
expired  collective bargaining agreement, the policy be-
hind  continuing the  nonstatutory labor  exemption  for
the terms of a collective bargaining agreement after ex-
piration (to foster an atmosphere conducive to the nego-
tiation of a new collective bargaining agreement)  does
not apply.  To hold that the nonstatutory labor exemp-
tion extends to shield the NFL from antitrust liability
for imposing restraints never before  agreed to by the
union would not only infringe on the union's freedom to
contract, H. K. Porter Co. v. NLRB, 397 U. S. at 108...
(one  of fundamental  policies  of NLRA  is  freedom  of
contract),  but would  also contradict  the very purpose
of the antitrust exemption by not promoting execution
of a collective bargaining  agreement with terms mutu-
proposition that hard core 'anticompetitive  commercial  restraint[s]'  like
'price-fixing and market allocation'-and petitioner would add group boy-
cotts-were subject to antitrust regulation even where bargained about.
381 U. S. 732-33 (concurring opinion).  As this Court unanimously warned
in 1949, 'Benefits to organized labor cannot be utilized as a cat's paw to pull
employer's  chestnuts out of antitrust fires.'  United States v. Women's
Sportswear Mfr's Assn, 336 U. 5.460,464 (1949).  See also Allen Bradley
Co. v. Local No. 3, 325 U. S. [797] (1945).  Similar arguments by football
were rejected by this Court in Radovich [v. National Football League,
352 U. S. 445 (1957),] as 'without merit,' and the reserve systems of other
sports are now regulated by state and federal antitrust laws."  Pet. for
Cert. in Flood v. Kuhn, 0. T. 1971, No. 71-32, p. 21, n. 9.

NEW PAGE

266  BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
ally  acceptable  to  employer  and  labor  union  alike.
Labor unions  would be unlikely to sign collective bar-
gaining agreements with employers if they believed that
they  would  be forced  to accept  terms  to  which  they
never agreed."  782 F. Supp. 125,  139 (DC 1991)  (foot-
note omitted).
Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.

