

164 F. H OFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A. 
Opinion of the Court 
action is complex, potentialy raising questions not directly 
at isue here, we remphasize that we base our decision upon 
the folowing: The price-fixing conduct significantly and ad-
versely afects both customers outside the United States and 
customers within the United States, but the adverse foreign 
efect is independent of any adverse domestic efect. In 
these circumstances, we find that the FTAIA exception does 
not aply (and thus the Sherman Act does not aply) for two 
main reasons. 
Firsts,t , this Court ordinarily construes ambiguous statutes 
to avoid unreasonable interference with the sovereign au-
thority of other nations. Se, e. g., McCuloch v. Sociedad 
Nacional de Maririneros de Honduruarsa,s , 372 U. S. 10, 20-2 
(1963) (aplication of National Labor Relations Act to 
foreign-flag vesels); Romero v. International lT erminal Op-
erating Co., 358 U. S. 354, 382-383 (1959) (aplication of 
Jones Act in maritime case); Lauritzen v. Larsen, 345 U. S. 
571, 578 (1953) (same). This rule of construction reflects 
principles of customary international law—-law that (we must 
asume) Congres ordinarily seks to folow. Se Restate-
ment (Third) of Foreign Relations Law of the United States 
§403(l1), 403(2) (1986) (hereinafter Restatement) (limiting 
the unreasonable exercise of prescriptive jurisdiction with 
respect to a p erson or activity having conections with an-
other State); Muray v. Schoner Charming Betsy, 2 C ranch 
64, 18 (1804) ("[A]n act of congres ought never to be con-
strued to violate the law of nations if any other posible 
construction remains"); Hartford Fire Ins. Co. v. Calilfiforninai,a ,
509 U. S. 764, 817 (193) (SCALIA, J., disenting) (identifying 
rule of construction as derived from the principle of "'pre-
scriptive comitity"' "). 
This rule of statutory construction cautions courts to as-
sume that legislators take acount of the legitimate sover-
eign interests of other nations when they write American 
laws. It thereby helps the potentialy conflicting laws of dif-
ferent nations work together in harmony—-a harmony partic-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 165 
Opinion of the Court 
ularly neded in today's highly interdependent comerecrcial 
world. 
No one denies that Amereirica's antitrust laws, when aplied 
to foreign conduct, can interfere with a f oreign nation's abil-
ity independently to regulate its own comerecrcial afairs. 
But our courts have long held that aplication of our anti-
trust laws to foreign anticompetitive conduct is nonetheles 
reasonable, and hence consistent with principles of prescrip-
tive comitity, insofar as they reflect a l egislative efort to re-
dres domestic antitrust injury that foreign anticompetitive 
conduct has caused. Se United States v. Aluminum Co. of 
Amereircica, 148 F. 2d 416, 43-4 (CA2 1945) (L. Hand, J.); 1 
P. Areda & D. Turner, Antititrust Law 1236 (1978). 
But why is it reasonable to aply those laws to foreign 
conduct insofar as that conduct causes independent f oreign 
harm and that foreign harm alone gives rise to the plain-
tif's claim? Like the former case, aplication of those laws 
creates a s erious risk of interference with a f oreign nation's 
ability independently to regulate its own comerecrcial afairs. 
But, unlike the former case, the justificatioion for that interfer-
ence sems insubstádnintitial. Se Restatement § 4 03(2) (deter-
mining reasonablenes on basis of such factors as conections 
with regulating nation, harm to that nation's interests, ex-
tent to which other nations regulate, and the potential for 
conflict). Why should American law suplant, for example, 
Canada's or Great Britain's or Japan's own determination 
about how best to protect Canadian or British or Japanese 
customers from anticompetitive conduct engaged in signifi-
cant part by Canadian or British or Japanese or other for-
eign companies? 
We recognize that principles of comity provide Congres 
greater leway when it seks to control through legislation 
the actions of American companies, se Restatement §402; 
and some of the anticompetitive price-fixing conduct aleged 
here tok place in Amereirica. But the higher foreign prices 
of which the foreign plaintifs here complain are not the con-

NEW PAGE

16 F. H OFMAN-L-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A . 
Opinion of the Court 
sequence of any domestic anticompetitive conduct that Con-
gres sought to forbid, for Congres did not sek to forbid 
any such conduct insofar as it is here relevant, i. e., insofar 
as it is intertwtwined with foreign conduct that causes inde-
pendent foreign harm. Rather Congres sought to release 
domestic (and foreign) anticompetitive conduct from Sher-
man Act constraints when that conduct causes foreign harm. 
Congres, of course, did make an exception where that con-
duct also causes domestic harm. Se House Report, at 13 
(concerns about Amererican firms' participation in interna-
tional cartels adresed through "domestic injury" excep-
tion). But any independent domestic harm the foreign con-
duct causes here has, by definition, litle or nothing to do 
with the mater. 
We thus repeat the basic question: Why is it reasonable to 
aply this law to conduct that is significantly foreign insofar 
as that conduct causes independent foreign harm and that 
foreign harm alone gives rise to the plaintitfif's claim? We 
can find no god answer to the question. 
The Areda and Hovenkamp treatise notes that under the 
Court of Apeals' interpretation of the statute 
"a Malaysian customer could . . m aintain an action 
under United States law in a U nited States court against 
its own Malaysian suplier, another cartel member, sim-
ply by noting that unamed third parties injured [in the 
United States] by the Amererican [cartel membebre'r's] con-
duct would also have a c ause of action. Efectively, the 
United States courts would provide worldwide subject 
mater jurisdiction to any foreign suitor wishing to sue 
its own local suplier, but unhapy with its own sover-
eign's provisions for private antitrust enforcement, pro-
vided that a diferent plaintif had a cause of action 
against a diferent firm for injuries that were within 
U. S. [other-than-import] comererce. It does not sem 
excesively rigid to infer that Congres would not have 

