

226  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL  OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
The Ninth Circuit distinguished respondents claims from
those in our fied-rate cases involving special services in one
other respect: according to respondent, the "special services"
that it sought were provided by petitioner, without charge,
to other customers, 108 F. 3d, at 989, n. 9.  Even if that were
so, the claim  for these services  would  still be pre-empted
under the filed rate doctrine.  To the extent respondent is
asserting discriminatory  treatment, its remedy is to bring
suit under § 202 of the Communications Act.'  To the extent
petitioner is claiming that its own claims for special services
are not really special because other companies get the same
preferences, "that would only tend to show that the practice
was unlawful [with regard to] the others as well."  United
States v. Wabash R. Co., supra, at 413.  Because respondent
asks for privileges  not included  in the tariff, its state-law
claims are barred in either case.
IV
Our  analysis  applies  with  equal  force  to  respondent's
tortious-interference  claim  because  that is wholly  deriva-
tive of the contract claim for additional and better services.
Respondent  contended  that the  tort  claim  Was  based  on
"AT&T's refusal to provide [respondent]  with certain types
of service"  and  the  Magistrate Judge  agreed, noting that
"'the claims in this case, even the tort claim,..,  stem from
the alleged failure of AT&T to comply with its contractual
relationship.'  2  Brief for Appellant in Nos. 94-36116,  94-
1Eight months after the close of discovery (and well after the 2-year
statute  of limitations  in the  Communications  Act,  §415),  respondent
sought leave to file a second amended complaint to add a § 202 claim.  The
Magistrate Judge denied the request.  Respondent  did not appeal that
ruling.
2 The dissent argues that "the jury's verdict on respondent's tort claim
is supported by evidence that went well beyond, and differed in nature
from, the contract claim," post, at 231, which the dissent asserts requires
us to remand this case rather than reverse the judgment.  This issue of
noncontract evidence neither was included within the question presented

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
36156 (CA9), p. 33.  Respondent can no more obtain unlaw-
ful preferences under the cloak of a tort claim than it can by
contract.  "The rights as defined by the tariff cannot be var-
ied or enlarged by either  contract  or tort of the  carrier."
Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260 U. S. 156, 163
(1922); see also Maislin, 497 U. S., at 126.
The saving clause of the Communications  Act, § 414, con-
trary to respondent's reading of it, does not dictate a differ-
ent result.  Section 414 copies the saving clause of the ICA,
and we have long held that the latter preserves  only those
rights that are not inconsistent with the statutory fied-tariff
requirements.  Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,2 26 U. S.
491, 507 (1913).  A claim for services that constitute unlaw-
ful preferences  or that directly conflict with the tariff-the
basis for both the tort and contract claims here-cannot be
"saved" under § 414.  "Th[e saving] clause...  cannot in rea-
son be construed as continuing in [customers] a common law
for our review ('Whether...  the Ninth Circuit improperly allowed state-
law contract and tort claims based on a common carrier's failure to honor
an alleged side agreement to give its customer better service than called
for by the carrier's tariff") nor was raised by respondent as an alternative
ground in support of the judgment.  Nor has respondent ever suggested
the need for a remand, even though the petition for certiorari sought not
merely reversal, but summary reversal.  In its brief on the merits, re-
spondent argued that the intentional tort claim was not pre-empted be-
cause AT&T's willful breach of its contractual commitments was not pro-
tected by the filed rate doctrine.  There was no hint of an argument that,
even if that willful breach could not form the basis for an action, other
alleged intentional acts sufficed to support the judgment below.  At no
point has respondent disputed the Magistrate Judge's finding that the tort
claim is derivative of the contract claim, or the Ninth Circuit's description
of its tort claim as based on the fact that "because  COT had promised
certain benefits  of SDN to its customers, and because AT&T provided
competing services, any violation of AT&T's contractual duties constituted
tortious interference with COT's relationship with its customers."  108
F. 3d 981, 988 (1997).  Contrary to the dissents assertion, we have no
obligation to search the record  for the existence  of a nonjurisdictional
point not presented, and to consider a disposition (remand instead of rever-
sal) not suggested by either side.

NEW PAGE

228  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE  TELEPHONE, INC.
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring
right, the continued existence of which would be absolutely
inconsistent with the provisions of the act.  In other words,
the act cannot be held to destroy itself."  Texas & Pacific R.
Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 446 (1907).
Finally, we reject respondent's argument that, even if the
tariff exclusively governs the parties' relationship, the relief
awarded  is  consistent  with  the  tariff, since  AT&T  Tariff
FCC No. 1, § 2.3.1 provides that petitioner's "liability, if any,
for its willful misconduct is not limited by this tariff."  Re-
spondent  reasons  that, because  the jury found  that peti-
tioner engaged in willful misconduct,  the verdict does not
conflict  with  the tariff.  Section 2.3.1,  however, cannot be
construed to do what the parties have no power to do.  It
removes only those limitations upon liability imposed by the
tariff,n ot those imposed by law.  It is the Communications
Act  that  renders  the  promise  of  preferences  unenforce-
able.  The tariff can  no more  exempt the broken promise
of preference  that is willful than it can the broken  prom-
ise of preference that is unintentional.  (In fact, perversely
enough,  the  willful breach  displays  a  greater,  if belated,
attempt to comply with the law.)
Because  respondent's  state-law claims are barred by the
fied rate doctrine,  we reverse  the judgment  of the Ninth
Circuit.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE  O'CONNOR  took no part in the consideration  or
decision of this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, concurring.
The Court concludes that respondent's  tortious interfer-
ence claim is "wholly derivative  of the contract claim"  and
therefore barred by the filed rate doctrine.  The Court ac-
cepts the Magistrate Judge's finding to that effect, ante, at
226, and I agree: The  acts of tortious interference  asserted

