

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
that "the [S. E. U. A.]  defendants could have [managed to cut
the targets  off from reinsurance]  by prompting reinsurance
companies to  refuse to  deal with nonmembers."  Ante,  at
789.  Even assuming that is what happened, all that can be
derived  from  S. E. U. A.  is  the  proposition  that  one  who
prompts a boycott is a  co-conspirator  with the boycotters.
For  with or without the defendants' prompting, the rein-
surers' refusal to deal in S. E. U A. was a boycott, member-
ship  in the association  having  no  discernible  bearing  upon
the terms of the refused reinsurance  contracts.
JUSTICE SOUTER suggests that we have somehow mistak-
enly "posit[ed] ...  autonomy on the part of the reinsurers."
Ante, at 792.  We do not understand this.  Nothing  in the
complaints alleges that the reinsurers were deprived of their
"autonomy," which we take to mean that they were coerced
by  the  primary  insurers.  (Given  the  sheer  size  of  the
Lloyd's  market,  such  an  allegation  would  be  laughable.)
That is not to say that we disagree with JUSTICE  SOUTER'S
contention that, according to the allegations,  the reinsurers
would  not "have  taken  exactly  the  same  course  of action
without  the intense  efforts  of the  four primary  insurers."
Ibid.  But the same could be said of the participants  in vir-
tually all conspiracies:  If they had not been enlisted by the
"intense efforts" of the leaders, their actions would not have
been the same.  If this factor renders otherwise lawful con-
spiracies  (under McCarran-Ferguson)  illegal, then  the Act
would have a narrow scope indeed.
Perhaps JUSTICE SOUTER feels that it is undesirable, as a
policy matter, to allow insurers to "prompt" reinsurers  not
to deal with the insurers' competitors-whether or not that
refusal to deal is a boycott.  That feeling is certainly under-
standable, since under the normal application of the Sherman
Act  the reinsurers'  concerted  refusal  to deal  would  be  an
unlawful  conspiracy,  and  the  insurers'  "prompting"  could
make  them  part  of  that  conspiracy.  The  McCarran-

NEW PAGE

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
Ferguson Act, however,  makes  that  conspiracy  lawful  (as-
suming reinsurance is state regulated), unless the refusal to
deal is a "boycott."
Under the test set forth above, there are  sufficient alle-
gations  of a  "boycott"  to  sustain  the  relevant  counts  of
complaint  against  a  motion  to  dismiss.  For  example,  the
complaints  allege  that  some  of  the  defendant  reinsur-
ers threatened to "withdra[w]  entirely from the business of
reinsuring  primary U. S. insurers who wrote on the occur-
rence form."  App. 31 (Cal. Complaint  89), id., at 83 (Conn.
Complaint  93).  Construed most favorably to respondents,
that allegation  claims that primary insurers who wrote in-
surance  on  disfavored forms  would  be refused  all reinsur-
ance, even as to risks written on otherf orms.  If that were
the case, the reinsurers might have been engaging in a boy-
cott-they would, that is, unless the primary insurers' other
business were relevant to the proposed reinsurance contract
(for example, if the reinsurer bears greater risk where the
primary insurer engages in riskier businesses).  Cf. Gonye,
Underwriting  the  Reinsured,  in  Reinsurance  439, 463-466
(R. Strain' ed. 1980); 2 R. Reinarz, J. Schloss, G. Patrik, & P.
Kensicki, Reinsurance Practices 21-23 (1990)  (same).  Other
allegations  in  the complaints  could  be  similarly construed.
For example, the complaints also allege that the reinsurers
"threatened  a boycott  of North American  CGL  risks," not
just  CGL  risks  containing  dissatisfactory  terms,  App.  26
(Cal. Complaint  74), id., at 79 (Conn. Complaint  78); that
"the  foreign  and  domestic  reinsurer  representatives  pre-
sented  their  agreed  upon  positions  that  there  would  be
changes in the CGL forms or no reinsurance," id., at 29 (Cal.
Complaint  82), id., at 81-82  (Conn.  Complaint  86); that
some of the defendant  insurers and reinsurers told "groups
of insurance brokers and agents ...  that a reinsurance boy-
cott, and thus loss of income to the agents and brokers who
would be unable to find available markets for their custom-
ers, would  ensue  if the  [revised]  ISO forms  were  not ap-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
proved,"  id., at 29 (Cal.  Complaint  85),  id., at 82  (Conn.
Complaint 189).
Many other allegations in the complaints describe conduct
that may amount to a boycott if the plaintiffs can prove cer-
tain additional facts.  For example, General  Re, the largest
American reinsurer, is alleged to have "agreed to either co-
erce ISO to adopt [the defendants'] demands or, failing that,
'derail'  the entire  CGL  forms  program."  Id.,  at  24  (Cal.
Complaint  64),  id., at 77 (Conn.  Complaint  68).  If this
means that General  Re intended to withhold all reinsurance
on  all  CGL  forms-even  forms  having  no  objectionable
terms-that might amount to a "boycott."  Also, General Re
and  several  other domestic  reinsurers  are  alleged to have
"agreed to boycott the 1984  ISO forms unless a retroactive
date was added to the claims-made form, and a pollution ex-
clusion and a defense cost cap were added to both [the occur-
rence  and claims made]  forms."  Id., at 25 (Cal. Complaint
66), id., at 78 (Conn. Complaint  70).  Liberally construed,
this  allegation  may  mean  that  the  defendants  had  linked
their demands  so that they would  continue to refuse to do
business on either form until both were changed to their lik-
ing.  Again, that might amount to a boycott.  "[A]  complaint
should not be dismissed unless 'it appears beyond doubt that
the plaintiff can prove no set of facts in support of his claim
which would entitle him to relief."'  McLain v. Real Estate
Bd. of New  Orleans, Inc., 444 U. S. 232, 246 (1980) (quoting
Conley v. Gibson, 355  U. S. 41,  45-46  (1957)).  Under that
standard, these allegations are sufficient to sustain the First,
Second, Third, and Fourth Claims for Relief in the California
Complaint and the First and Second Claims for Relief in the
7
Connecticut Complaint.
7 We agree  with JUSTICE  SOUTER'S conclusion, ante, at 790-791,  n. 18,
that the Seventh Claim for Relief in the  California Complaint and the
Sixth Claim for Relief in  the Connecticut Complaint fail to  allege any
ยง 3(b) boycotts.

