

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
898  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
for a vertical price restraint, there is a greater likelihood 
that the restraint facilitates a retailer cartel or supports a 
dominant, inefﬁcient retailer.  See Brief for William S. Com­
anor et al. as Amici Curiae 7–8.  If, by contrast, a manufac­
turer adopted the policy independent of retailer pressure, 
the restraint is less likely to promote anticompetitive con­
duct.  Cf. Posner 177 (“It makes all the difference whether 
minimum retail prices are imposed by the manufacturer in 
order to evoke point-of-sale services or by the dealers in 
order to obtain monopoly proﬁts”).  A manufacturer also has 
an incentive to protest inefﬁcient retailer-induced price re­
straints because they can harm its competitive position. 
As a ﬁnal matter, that a dominant manufacturer or retailer 
can abuse resale price maintenance for anticompetitive pur­
poses may not be a serious concern unless the relevant entity 
has market power.  If a retailer lacks market power, manu­
facturers likely can sell their goods through rival retailers. 
See also Business Electronics, supra, at 727, n. 2 (noting 
“[r]etail market power is rare, because of the usual presence 
of  interbrand  competition  and  other  dealers”).  And  if  a 
manufacturer lacks market power, there is less likelihood it 
can use the practice to keep competitors away from distribu­
tion outlets. 
The rule of reason is designed and used to eliminate anti­
competitive transactions from  the market.  This standard 
principle applies to vertical price restraints.  A party alleg­
ing injury from a vertical agreement setting minimum resale 
prices will have, as a general matter, the information and 
resources available to show the existence of the agreement 
and its scope of operation.  As courts gain experience con­
sidering the effects of these restraints by applying the rule 
of reason over the course of decisions, they can establish the 
litigation structure to ensure the rule operates to eliminate 
anticompetitive restraints from the market and to provide 
more guidance to businesses.  Courts can, for example, de­
vise rules over time for offering proof, or even presumptions 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  899 
Opinion of the Court 
where justiﬁed, to make the rule of reason a fair and efﬁcient 
way to prohibit anticompetitive restraints and to promote 
procompetitive ones. 
For all of the foregoing reasons, we think that were the 
Court considering the issue as an original matter, the rule 
of reason, not a per se rule of unlawfulness, would be the 
appropriate standard to judge vertical price restraints. 
IV 
We do not write on a clean slate, for the decision in Dr. 
Miles is almost a century old.  So there is an argument for 
its retention on the basis of stare decisis alone.  Even if Dr. 
Miles established an erroneous rule, “[s]tare decisis reﬂects 
a policy judgment that in most matters it is more important 
that the applicable rule of law be settled than that it be set­
tled right.”  Khan, 522 U. S., at 20 (internal quotation marks 
omitted).  And concerns about maintaining settled law are 
strong when the question is one of statutory interpretation. 
See, e. g., Hohn v. United States, 524 U. S. 236, 251 (1998). 
Stare decisis is not as signiﬁcant in this case, however, 
because the issue before us is the scope of the Sherman Act. 
Khan, supra, at 20 (“[T]he general presumption that legisla­
tive changes should be left to Congress has less force with 
respect  to  the  Sherman  Act”).  From  the  beginning  the 
Court has treated the Sherman Act as a common-law statute. 
See  National  Soc.  of  Professional  Engineers  v.  United 
States, 435 U. S. 679, 688 (1978); see also Northwest Airlines, 
Inc. v. Transport Workers, 451 U. S. 77, 98, n. 42 (1981) (“In 
antitrust, the federal courts . . . act more as common-law 
courts than  in other  areas governed  by federal  statute”). 
Just as the common law adapts to modern understanding and 
greater experience, so too does the Sherman Act’s prohibi­
tion on “restraint[s] of trade” evolve to meet the dynamics of 
present economic conditions.  The case-by-case adjudication 
contemplated by the rule of reason has implemented this 
common-law approach.  See National Soc. of Professional 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
900  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
Engineers, supra, at 688.  Likewise, the boundaries of the 
doctrine of per se illegality should not be immovable.  For 
“[i]t would make no sense to create out of the single term 
‘restraint  of  trade’  a  chronologically  schizoid  statute,  in 
which a ‘rule of reason’ evolves with new circumstances and 
new wisdom, but a line of per se illegality remains forever 
ﬁxed where it was.”  Business Electronics, 485 U. S., at 732. 
A 
Stare decisis, we conclude, does not compel our continued 
adherence to the per se rule against vertical price restraints. 
As discussed earlier, respected authorities in the economics 
literature suggest the per se rule is inappropriate, and there 
is now widespread agreement that resale price maintenance 
can have procompetitive effects.  See, e. g., Brief for Econo­
mists as Amici Curiae 16.  It is also signiﬁcant that both 
the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commis­
sion—the antitrust enforcement agencies with the ability to 
assess the long-term impacts of resale price maintenance— 
have recommended that this Court replace the per se rule 
with the traditional rule of reason.  See Brief for United 
States as Amicus Curiae 6.  In the antitrust context the 
fact that a decision has been “called into serious question” 
justiﬁes our reevaluation of it.  Khan, supra, at 21. 
Other  considerations  reinforce  the  conclusion  that  Dr. 
Miles should be overturned.  Of most relevance, “we have 
overruled our precedents when subsequent cases have un­
dermined  their  doctrinal  underpinnings.”  Dickerson  v. 
United States, 530 U. S. 428, 443 (2000).  The Court’s treat­
ment of vertical restraints has progressed away from Dr. 
Miles’ strict approach.  We have distanced ourselves from 
the  opinion’s  rationales.  See  supra,  at  887–889;  see  also 
Khan, supra, at 21 (overruling a case when “the views un­
derlying [it had been] eroded by this Court’s precedent”); 
Rodriguez de Quijas v.  Shearson/American Express, Inc., 
490 U. S. 477, 480–481 (1989) (same).  This is unsurprising, 
for the case was decided not long after enactment of the 

