

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
Rule Against Vertical Price Fixing, 71 Geo. L. J. 1487, 1490,
n. 17 (1983).
Not only are the potential injuries  cited in Albrecht less
serious than the Court imagined, the per se rule established
therein could in fact exacerbate problems related to the un-
restrained  exercise of market power by monopolist-dealers.
Indeed, both courts and  antitrust scholars  have noted that
Albrecht's rule may actually harm consumers  and manufac-
turers.  See, e. g., Caribe BMW, Inc. v. Bayerische Motoren
Werke  Aktiengesellschaft, 19  F.  3d  745,  753  (CA1  1994)
(Breyer, C. J.); Areeda  1636a, at 395;  G. Mathewson  & R.
Winter,  Competition  Policy  and  Vertical  Exchange  13-14
(1985).  Other  commentators  have  also explained  that Al-
brecht's per se rule has even more potential for deleterious
effect  on competition  after our  decision in GTE Sylvania,
because, now that vertical  nonprice restrictions are not un-
lawful per se, the likelihood of dealer monopoly power is in-
creased.  See, e. g.,  Easterbrook 890, n. 20; see also ARCO,
495  U. S., at 343, n. 13.  We  do not intend to suggest  that
dealers generally possess sufficient market power to exploit
a monopoly situation.  Such retail market power may in fact
be uncommon.  See, e. g., Business Electronics,4 85 U. S., at
727, n. 2; GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S.,  at 54.  Nor do we hold
that  a  ban  on  vertical  maximum  price  fixing  inevitably
has  anticompetitive  consequences  in  the  exclusive  dealer
context.
After reconsidering Albrecht's rationale and the substan-
tial criticism the decision has received, however, we conclude
that there is insufficient economic justification for per se in-
validation of vertical maximum price fixing.  That is so not
only because it is difficult to accept the assumptions underly-
ing Albrecht, but also because Albrecht has little or no rele-
vance  to  ongoing  enforcement  of the  Sherman  Act.  See
Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp., 467 U. S. 752,
777, and n. 25 (1984).  Moreover, neither the parties nor any

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
of the amici curiae have called our attention to any cases in
which enforcement  efforts have been directed solely against
the conduct encompassed by Albrech's per se rule.
Respondents argue that reconsideration of Albrecht should
require "persuasive, expert testimony establishing that the
per se rule has distorted the market."  Brief for Respond-
ents 7.  Their reasoning ignores the fact that Albrecht itself
relied solely upon hypothetical effects of vertical maximum
price fixing.  Further, Albrecht's dire predictions have not
been borne  out, even  though  manufacturers  and  suppliers
appear to have fashioned schemes to get around the per se
rule  against  vertical  maximum  price  fixing.  In  these
circumstances,  it is the  retention  of the  rule  of Albrecht,
and not, as respondents would have it, the rule's elimination,
that lacks adequate justification.  See, e. g.,  GTE Sylvania,
supra, at 58-59.
Respondents'  reliance  on  Toolson v. New  York  Yankees,
Inc., 346 U. S. 356 (1953)  (per curiam), and Flood v. Kuhn,
407 U. S. 258 (1972), is similarly misplaced, because those de-
cisions are clearly inapposite, having to do with the antitrust
exemption for professional baseball, which this Court has de-
scribed as "an aberration.  ..  rest[ing] on a recognition and
an acceptance of baseball's unique characteristics and needs,"
id., at 282.  In the context of this case, we infer little mean-
ing from the fact that Congress has not reacted legislatively
to Albrecht.  In any event, the history of various legislative
proposals regarding price fixing seems neither clearly to sup-
port nor to denounce the per se rule of Albrecht.  Respond-
ents are of course free to  seek legislative protection  from
gasoline  suppliers  of the  sort embodied  in the  Petroleum
Marketing  Practices  Act, 92 Stat. 322,  15 U. S. C. ยง 2801  et
seq.  For the reasons  we have noted, however, the remedy
for respondents'  dispute with State Oil should not come in
the form of a per se rule affecting the conduct of the entire
marketplace.

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
C
Despite what  Chief Judge Posner aptly described as Al-
brecht's "infirmities,  [and]  its  increasingly  wobbly, moth-
eaten foundations," 93 F. 3d, at 1363, there remains the ques-
tion whether Albrecht deserves continuing respect under the
doctrine of stare decisis.  The Court of Appeals was correct
in  applying  that principle  despite  disagreement  with Al-
brecht, for it is this Court's prerogative alone to overrule one
of its precedents.
We approach the reconsideration of decisions of this Court
with  the  utmost  caution.  Stare decisis reflects  "a policy
judgment that 'in most matters it is more important that the
applicable  rule  of  law  be  settled  than  that  it  be  settled
right."'  Agostini v. Felton, 521 U. S. 203, 235 (1997) (quot-
ing Burnet v.  Coronado Oil & Gas Co.,  285 U.S. 393,  406
(1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting)).  It "is the preferred course
because  it promotes the evenhanded,  predictable,  and  con-
sistent development  of legal principles,  fosters reliance  on
judicial decisions, and contributes to the actual and perceived
integrity of the judicial process."  Payne v. Tennessee, 501
U. S. 808, 827  (1991).  This  Court hag expressed  its reluc-
tance to overrule  decisions involving  statutory interpreta-
tion, see, e. g., Illinois Brick Co. v. Illinois,4 31 U. S. 720, 736
(1977), and has acknowledged that stare decisis concerns are
at their acme in cases involving property and contract rights,
see, e. g., Payne, 501 U. S.,  at 828.  Both of those concerns
are arguably relevant in this case.
But "[s]tared ecisis is not an inexorable command."  Ibid.
In the area of antitrust law, there is a competing  interest,
well represented in this Court's decisions, in recognizing and
adapting to changed circumstances and the lessons of accu-
mulated  experience.  Thus,  the  general  presumption  that
legislative changes should be left to Congress has less force
with  respect  to the  Sherman Act  in light  of the accepted
view  that Congress  "expected the courts  to give  shape to
the statute's broad mandate by drawing on common-law tra-

