

32  DASTAR  CORP. v. TWENTIETH  CENTURY  FOX
FILM CORP.
Opinion of the Court
under the original version of §4 3(a))5 to include not only the
actual producer, but also the trademark owner who commis-
sioned or assumed responsibility for ("stood behind") produc-
tion of the physical  product.  But  as used  in the  Lanham
Act, the phrase "origin of goods"  is in our view incapable of
connoting the person or entity that originated the ideas or
communications  that "goods"  embody  or contain.  Such an
extension  would not only  stretch the text, but it would  be
out of accord  with the history  and purpose  of the  Lanham
Act and inconsistent with precedent.
Section  43(a)  of the  Lanham  Act  prohibits  actions  like
trademark infringement that deceive consumers and impair a
producer's  goodwill.  It forbids, for example,  the Coca-Cola
Company's  passing off its product  as Pepsi-Cola  or reverse
passing off Pepsi-Cola  as its product.  But the brand-loyal
consumer  who  prefers  the drink that  the Coca-Cola  Com-
pany or PepsiCo sells, while he believes  that that company
produced  (or at least stands behind the production of) that
product, surely does  not necessarily  believe that that com-
pany was the "origin" of the drink in the sense that it was
the  very  first  to  devise  the formula.  The  consumer  who
buys a branded  product does not automatically assume that
the  brand-name  company  is  the same  entity that  came  up
with the idea for the product, or designed the product-and
typically does not care whether it is.  The words of the Lan-
5 Under the 1946 version of the Act, § 43(a) was read as providing a cause
of action for trademark infringement even  where the trademark owner
had not itself produced  the goods sold under its mark, but had licensed
others to sell under its name goods produced by them-the typical fran-
chise arrangement.  See, e. g., My Pie Int'l, Inc. v. Debould, Inc., 687 F. 2d
919 (CA7 1982).  This stretching of the concept "origin of goods" is seem-
ingly no longer needed: The  1988 amendments to  §43(a) now expressly
prohibit the use of any "word, term, name, symbol, or device," or "false or
misleading description of fact" that is likely to cause confusion as to "affil-
iation, connection, or association ...  with another person," or as to "spon-
sorship, or approval" of goods.  15 U. S. C. § 1125(a).

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 539 U. S. 23 (2003)
Opinion of the Court
ham  Act should not be stretched to cover matters that are
typically of no consequence  to purchasers.
It could be argued, perhaps, that the reality of purchaser
concern  is different for what might be  called a communica-
tive product-one that is valued not primarily for its physi-
cal qualities, such as a hammer, but for the intellectual con-
tent that it conveys, such as a book or, as here, a video.  The
purchaser of a novel is interested not merely, if at all, in the
identity of the producer of the physical tome (the publisher),
but also, and indeed primarily, in the identity of the creator
of the  story  it  conveys  (the  author).  And  the  author,  of
course, has at least as much interest in avoiding passing off
(or reverse passing off) of his creation as does the publisher.
For such a communicative product (the argument goes) "ori-
gin of goods" in § 43(a) must be deemed to include not merely
the producer of the physical item (the publishing house Far-
rar, Straus  and Giroux,  or the video producer  Dastar) but
also the creator of the content that the physical item conveys
(the author Tom Wolfe, or-assertedly-respondents).
The problem with this argument  according special treat-
ment to communicative products is that it causes the Lanham
Act  to conflict with  the law  of copyright,  which  addresses
that  subject  specifically.  The  right  to  copy,  and  to  copy
without  attribution,  once  a  copyright  has  expired,  like
"the right to make [an article  whose patent has expired]-
including the right to make it in precisely the shape it carried
when patented-passes  to the  public."  Sears, Roebuck  &
Co. v. Stiffel Co.,  376  U. S. 225, 230 (1964);  see also Kellogg
Co. v. National Biscuit Co.,  305  U. S.  111,  121-122  (1938).
"In general, unless an  intellectual property right such  as a
patent or  copyright protects  an item, it will be  subject  to
copying."  TrafFix Devices, Inc.  v.  Marketing Displays,
Inc.,  532  U. S. 23,  29  (2001).  The  rights  of a patentee  or
copyright  holder  are part of a  "carefully  crafted  bargain,"
Bonito Boats, Inc. v. Thunder Craft Boats, Inc., 489  U. S.
141,  150-151  (1989),  under which, once  the patent or  copy-

NEW PAGE

34  DASTAR  CORP. v. TWENTIETH  CENTURY  FOX
FILM  CORP.
Opinion of the Court
right monopoly has expired, the public may use the invention
or work at will and without attribution.  Thus, in construing
the Lanham  Act, we have been "careful  to caution  against
misuse or over-extension"  of trademark and related protec-
tions into areas traditionally occupied by patent or copyright.
TrafFix, 532  U.S.,  at  29.  "The  Lanham  Act,"  we  have
said,  "does  not  exist  to  reward  manufacturers  for  their
innovation  in creating  a particular  device;  that is  the pur-
pose  of the  patent law and its period  of exclusivity."  Id.,
at 34.  Federal trademark law "has no necessary relation to
invention  or discovery,"  Trade-Mark Cases, 100  U. S. 82, 94
(1879),  but rather, by preventing competitors from  copying
"a source-identifying  mark,"  "reduce[s] the customer's costs
of shopping  and  making purchasing  decisions,"  and  "helps
assure a producer  that it (and not an imitating competitor)
will reap the financial, reputation-related rewards associated
with a desirable product," Qualitex Co. v. Jacobson Products
Co.,  514 U. S.  159,  163-164 (1995)  (internal quotation marks
and citation omitted).  Assuming for the sake of argument
that Dastar's representation of itself as the "Producer" of its
videos amounted  to a representation  that it originated  the
creative  work  conveyed  by the videos,  allowing a cause  of
action under  § 43(a) for that representation  would create  a
species of mutant copyright law that limits the public's "fed-
eral right to 'copy and  to use'  expired  copyrights, Bonito
Boats, supra, at 165.
When  Congress has wished to create such an addition to
the law of copyright, it has done so with much more specific-
ity than the Lanham Act's ambiguous  use of "origin."  The
Visual  Artists  Rights  Act  of 1990,  § 603(a),  104  Stat. 5128,
provides  that the author of an artistic work "shall have the
right  ...to  claim  authorship  of that  work."  17  U. S. C.
§ 106A(a)(1)(A).  That  express  right of attribution  is care-
fully  limited  and  focused:  It  attaches  only  to  specified
"work[s]  of  visual  art,"  § 101,  is  personal  to  the  artist,
H 106A(b) and (e),  and endures  only for "the life  of the au-

