

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
not  claim  McCarran-Ferguson  Act  antitrust  immunity  for
two  independent  reasons.  First, it held, the foreign  rein-
surers were beyond the regulatory jurisdiction of the States;
because  their activities  could  not  be  "regulated  by  State
Law" within the meaning of § 2(b), they did not fall within
that section's grant of immunity.  Although the domestic in-
surers were "regulated by State Law,"  the court held, they
forfeited their § 2(b) exemption when they conspired with the
nonexempt  foreign  reinsurers.  Second,  the  Court  of Ap-
peals held  that, even if the conduct alleged fell within the
scope  of § 2(b),  it also  fell  within  the  § 3(b) exception  for
"act[s]  of boycott, coercion,  or intimidation."  Finally, as to
the three claims brought solely against foreign defendants,
the court applied its Timberlane analysis, but concluded that
the principle of international comity was no bar to exercising
Sherman Act jurisdiction.
We granted certiorari in No. 91-1111 to address two nar-
row questions  about the  scope  of McCarran-Ferguson  Act
antitrust immunity,8 and in No. 91-1128 to address the appli-
cation  of the Sherman Act to the foreign conduct at issue.9
506 U. S. 814 (1992).  We now affirm in part, reverse in part,
and remand.
8We limited our grant of certiorari in No. 91-1111 to these questions:
"1. Whether  domestic  insurance  companies  whose  conduct  otherwise
would  be exempt from the federal antitrust laws under the McCarran-
Ferguson Act lose that exemption because they participate with foreign
reinsurers  in the  business of insurance,"  and "2.  Whether agreements
among primary insurers and reinsurers on such matters as standardized
advisory insurance policy forms and terms of insurance coverage consti-
tute a 'boycott' outside the exemption of the McCarran-Ferguson  Act."
Pet. for Cert. in No. 91-1111, p. i; see 506 U. S. 814 (1992).
'The  question presented in No. 91-1128 is: "Did the court of appeals
properly assess the  extraterritorial reach  of the  U. S. antitrust laws in
light of this Court's teachings and contemporary understanding of interna-
tional law when it held that a U. S. district court may apply U. S. law to
the conduct  of a foreign insurance  market regulated abroad?"  Pet. for
Cert. in No. 91-1128, p. i.

NEW PAGE

780  HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Opinion of the Court
II
The petition in No. 91-1111 touches  on the interaction of
two important pieces of economic legislation.  The Sherman
Act  declares  "[e]very  contract, combination  in the form  of
trust or otherwise,  or conspiracy, in  restraint  of trade  or
commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations,
...  to be illegal."  15 U. S. C. § 1.  The McCarran-Ferguson
Act  provides  that  regulation  of the  insurance  industry  is
generally  a  matter  for  the  States,  15  U. S.C.  § 1012(a),
and  (again, generally)  that "[n]o  Act of Congress  shall be
construed  to  invalidate,  impair, or  supersede  any  law  en-
acted  by any State for the purpose  of regulating  the busi-
ness of insurance,"  § 1012(b).  Section 2(b) of the McCarran-
Ferguson Act makes  it clear nonetheless  that the Sherman
Act applies "to the business of insurance  to the extent that
such business is not regulated by State Law,"  § 1012(b), and
§ 3(b) provides  that nothing in the McCarran-Ferguson  Act
"shall render the... Sherman Act inapplicable to any agree-
ment to boycott, coerce, or intimidate, or act of boycott, coer-
cion, or intimidation,"  § 1013(b).
Petitioners in No. 91-1111 are all of the domestic defend-
ants in the consolidated cases: the four domestic primary in-
surers, the  domestic reinsurers,  the trade associations  ISO
and RAA, and the  domestic reinsurance  broker Thomas  A.
Greene & Company, Inc.  They argue that the Court of Ap-
peals  erred  in holding, first, that  their conduct,  otherwise
immune from antitrust liability under § 2(b) of the McCarran-
Ferguson Act, lost its immunity  when they  conspired with
the  foreign  defendants,  and,  second,  that  their  conduct
amounted to "act[s]  of boycott" falling within the exception
to  antitrust immunity  set out in  § 3(b).  We  conclude  that
the Court of Appeals did err about the effect of conspiring
with foreign defendants,  but correctly  decided  that all but
one of the complaints'  relevant  Claims for *Relief are fairly
read to allege conduct falling within the "boycott" exception
to  McCarran-Ferguson  Act antitrust  immunity.  We  there-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
fore affirm the Court of Appeals's judgment that it was error
for the District Court to dismiss the complaints on grounds
of McCarran-Ferguson  Act immunity, except as to the one
claim for relief that the Court of Appeals correctly found to
allege no boycott.
A
By  its  terms,  the  antitrust  exemption  of  § 2(b)  of  the
McCarran-Ferguson  Act  applies to  "the business  of insur-
ance" to the extent that such business is regulated by state
law.  While "business" may mean "[a]  commercial  or indus-
trial establishment or enterprise,"  Webster's New  Interna-
tional Dictionary 362 (2d ed. 1942), the definite article before
"business" in § 2(b) shows that the word is not used in that
sense, the phrase "the business of insurance"  obviously not
being meant to refer to a single entity.  Rather, "business"
as used in § 2(b) is most naturally read to refer to "[miercan-
tile transactions; buying and selling; [and'] traffic."  Ibid.
The cases confirm that "the business of insurance" should
be read to single out one activity from others, not to distin-
guish one entity from another.  In Group Life & Health Ins.
Co. v. Royal Drug Co., 440 U. S. 205 (1979), for example, we
held that § 2(b) did not exempt an insurance  company from
antitrust liability for making an agreement  fixing the price
of prescription drugs to be sold to Blue Shield policyholders.
Such  activity, we  said,  "would  be  exempt  from  the  anti-
trust laws  if Congress  had  extended  the  coverage  of the
McCarran-Ferguson Act to the 'business of insurance compa-
nies.'  But that is precisely what Congress did not do."  Id.,
at 233  (footnote omitted);  see SEC v. National Securities,
Inc., 393 U. S. 453, 459 (1969)  (the McCarran-Ferguson  Act's
"language  refers not to  the persons  or companies  who are
subject to state regulation, but to laws 'regulating the busi-
ness of insurance'")  (emphasis in  original).  And  in  Union
Labor Life Ins. Co. v. Pireno, 458 U. S. 119 (1982), we explic-
itly framed the question as whether "a particular practice is
part of the 'business of insurance'  exempted from the anti-

