

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
those facts, see n. 3, supra,j ustified the finding by the jury
that B&W's discriminatory pricing campaign "had a reason-
able possibility of injuring competition,"  see  supra, at 244,
and n. 2.
II
The Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, enacted in 1890, the Clay-
ton Act,  38  Stat. 730, enacted  in  1914, and  the Robinson-
Patman  Act,  which  amended  the  Clayton Act  in  1936,  all
serve the purpose of protecting competition.  Because they
have  a common  goal, the statutes  are similar in  many re-
spects.  All three prohibit the predatory practice of deliber-
ately selling below cost to discipline a competitor, either to
drive the competitor  out of business  or to raise prices to a
level that will enable the predator to recover its losses and,
in  the  long run, earn additional profits.  Sales  below cost
and anticompetitive  intent  are elements  of the violation  of
all three statutes.  Neither of those elements, however, is at
issue in this case.  See ante, at 231 (record contains sufficient
evidence  of anticompetitive  intent and  below-cost  pricing).
The statutes do differ significantly with respect to one ele-
ment of the violation, the competitive consequences of preda-
tory conduct.  Even here, however, the three statutes have
one thing in common: Not one of them requires proof that a
predatory  plan has actually  succeeded  in accomplishing  its
objective.  Section 1 of the Sherman Act requires proof of a
conspiracy.  It is the joint plan to restrain trade, however,
and not its success, that is prohibited by ยง 1.  Nash v. United
States, 229 U. S. 373, 378 (1913).  Section 2 of the Sherman
Act  applies  to  independent  conduct,  and  may  be  violated
when there is a "dangerous probability" that an attempt to
achieve monopoly power will succeed.  Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 396 (1905).  The Clayton Act goes be-
yond  the  "dangerous  probability"  standard  to  cover  price
discrimination "where the effect of such discrimination may
be  to  substantially  lessen  competition  or tend  to  create a
monopoly in any line of commerce."  ยง 2, 38 Stat. 730.

NEW PAGE

252  BROOKE  GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
The  element  of  competitive  injury  as  defined  in  the
Robinson-Patman  Act  is  broader  still.'3  See  S.  Rep.  No.
1502, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., 4 (1936)  (Act substantially broad-
ens similar clause of Clayton Act).'4  The Robinson-Patman
Act  was  designed  to reach  discriminations  "in their incipi-
ency,  before  the  harm  to  competition  is  effected.  It  is
enough that they 'may' have the prescribed  effect."  Corn
Products Refining Co. v. FTC, 324 U. S. 726,  738 (1945)  (in-
ternal quotation marks omitted).  Or, as the Report of the
Senate Judiciary  Committee on the proposed Act explained,
"to  catch the weed in the seed will keep it from coming to
flower."  S. Rep. No. 1502, at 4.
Accordingly, our  leading  case  concerning  discriminatory
volume rebates described the scope of the Act as follows:
IsS ee text of statute, n. 1, supra.
14One of the purposes of broadening the Clayton Act's competitive in-
jury language in the Robinson-Patman Act was to provide more effective
protection against predatory price  cutting.  As  the Attorney  General's
National Committee to Study the Antitrust Laws explained  in its 1955
report:
"In some circumstances, to be sure, injury to even a single competitor
should bring the Act into play.  Predatory price cutting designed to elimi-
nate a smaller business rival, for example, is a practice which inevitably
frustrates competition by excluding competitors from the market or delib-
erately impairing  their competitive  strength.  The invalidation  of such
deliberate price slashes for the purpose of destroying even a single com-
petitor, moreover, accords distinct recognition to the narrower  tests of
'injury' added to the price discrimination provisions  of the Clayton Act
through  the  1936  Robinson-Patman  amendments.  The  discrimination
provisions in the original Clayton Act were feared  by the legislators as
inadequate to check the victimization of individual businessmen by preda-
tory price cuts that nevertheless  created no general impairment of com-
petitive conditions in a wider market.  To reach such destructive price
cuts endangering the survival of smaller rivals of a powerful seller was an
express objective of the liberalizing amendments in the 'injury' clause of
the Robinson-Patman  Act."  Report of the Attorney General's  National
Committee  to  Study  the  Antitrust  Laws  165-166  (1955)  (footnotes
omitted).

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
"There  are specific findings  that  such injuries  had  re-
sulted from respondent's discounts, although the statute
does not require the Commission to find that injury has
actually  resulted.  The  statute requires  no more than
that the  effect  of the prohibited  price  discriminations
'may be  substantially to lessen  competition  ... or to
injure, destroy, or prevent competition.'  After a care-
ful  consideration  of  this  provision  of  the  Robinson-
Patman Act, we have said that 'the statute does not re-
quire that the discrimination must in fact have harmed
competition, but only that there is a reasonable possibil-
ity that they "may" have such  an effect.'  Corn Prod-
ucts Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 324  U. S. 726, 742."
FTC v. Morton Salt Co., 334 U. S. 37, 46 (1948).
See also Falls City Industries, Inc. v. Vanco Beverage, Inc.,
460  U. S. 428,  435  (1983)  ("In keeping  with  the  Robinson-
Patman  Act's prophylactic  purpose,  ยง 2(a) does  not require
that the discriminations must in fact have harmed competi-
tion" (internal quotation marks omitted)).
In this case, then, Liggett need not show any actual harm
to competition, but only the reasonable possibility that such
harm would  flow from B&W's  conduct.  The  evidence pre-
sented  supports the  conclusion  that B&W's  price  war was
intended  to discipline  Liggett for its unprecedented  use  of
price competition in an industry that had enjoyed handsome
supracompetitive  profits for about half a century.  The evi-
dence  also demonstrates  that B&W  executives  were  confi-
dent enough  in the feasibility  of their plan  that they were
willing to invest millions of company dollars in its outcome.
And all  of this, of course, must be  viewed  against a  back-
ground of supracompetitive, parallel pricing, in which "prices
for cigarettes increased in lockstep, twice a year...  irrespec-
tive of the rate of inflation, changes in the cost of production,
or shifts in consumer demand,"  ante, at 213, bringing with
them dramatic increases  in profit margins, see  n. 5,  supra.
In this context, it is surely fair to infer that B&W's discipli-

