

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Counsel
Laurel A. Price, Deputy Attorney General of New Jersey,
argued  the cause for respondents  in both cases.  With her
on the brief for state respondents in No. 91-1111 and on the
brief for  state  respondents  in  No.  91-1128  were  J  Joseph
Curran,J r., Attorney General of Maryland, Ellen S. Cooper,
Assistant  Attorney  General,  James H.  Evans, Attorney
General  of  Alabama,  Charles E.  Cole,  Attorney  General
of Alaska,  Jim Forbes, Assistant Attorney  General,  Grant
Woods, Attorney General of Arizona, Suzanne M. Dallimore,
Assistant Attorney  General,  Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney
General of California, Roderick E. Walston, Chief Assistant
Attorney General,  Sanford N. Gruskin, Assistant Attorney
General,  Thomas  Greene,  Supervising  Deputy  Attorney
General, Kathleen E. Foote, Deputy Attorney General, Gale
A.  Norton, Attorney General  of Colorado,  James R. Lewis,
Assistant Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal, Attorney
General  of  Connecticut,  Robert M.  Langer and  William
M.  Rubenstein, Assistant  Attorneys  General,  Richard T
Ieyoub,  Attorney  General  of  Louisiana,  Jenifer Schaye,
Assistant  Attorney  General,  Scott Harshbarger,A  ttorney
General of Massachusetts,  Thomas M. Alpert and George K.
Weber, Assistant Attorneys General, Frank J  Kelley, Attor-
ney General of Michigan, Hubert H. Humphrey III, Attorney
General  of Minnesota, Thomas F. Pursell, Deputy Attorney
General,  Lisa Tiegel, Special  Assistant  Attorney  General,
Marc Racicot, Attorney General of Montana, Paul Johnson,
Assistant  Attorney General,  Robert J. Del Tufo, Attorney
General of New Jersey, Robert Abrams, Attorney General of
New York, Jerry Boone, Solicitor General, George Sampson,
Richard L. Schwartz and  Gary J. Malone, Assistant Attor-
neys General, Lee Fisher,A  ttorney General of Ohio, Doreen
C. Johnson and  Marc B.  Bandman, Assistant  Attorneys
General, Ernest D. Preate, Jr., Attorney General of Pennsyl-
vania, Thomas L. Welch and David R. Weyl, Deputy Attor-
neys General,  Kenneth 0. Eikenberry, Attorney General  of
Washington,  John R. Ellis, Deputy Attorney  General,  Tina

NEW PAGE

HARTFORD FIRE INS. CO. v. CALIFORNIA
Counsel
E. Kondo, Assistant Attorney  General,  Mario J. Palumbo,
Attorney General of West Virginia, Donald L. Darling,D  ep-
uty Attorney General, Donna S. Quesenberry,S enior Assist-
ant Attorney General, James E. Doyle, Attorney General of
Wisconsin, and Kevin J. O'Connor,A  ssistant Attorney Gen-
eral.  H. Laddie Montague, Jr., Howard Langer, Nicholas
E. Chimicles, Eugene Gressman, Jerry S. Cohen, and Robert
Miller filed a brief for private respondents in both cases.
Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued  the cause  for
the  United  States  as  amicus  curiae urging  affirmance.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Bry-
son, Acting Assistant Attorney General Clark, Robert A.
Long, Jr., Robert B. Nicholson, Marion L. Jetton, Charles
S. Stark, and Edward T Hand.t
f Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Government
of Canada by Douglas E. Rosenthal; for the Government  of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland by Mark R. Joelson; for
the American Insurance  Association et al. by John E. Nolan, Jr., Craig
A  Berrington, and Patrick J. McNally; for the National Association of
Casualty & Surety Agents et al. by Anthony C. Epstein and Ann M. Kap-
pler; for the National Conference of Insurance Legilators by Stephen W.
Schwab, Seymour Simon, and Reuben A Bernick; and for the Washington
Legal Foundation by Daniel J. Popeo and Richard YL  Samp.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance  were  filed for the State of
Texas et al. by Dan Morales, Attorney General of Texas, Will Pryor,F irst
Assistant Attorney General, Mary F. Keller, Deputy Attorney General,
and  Thomas P  Perkins, Jr., Mark Tobey, Katherine D. Farroba,a nd
Floyd Russell Ham, Assistant Attorneys General, Charles M. Oberly III,
Attorney General  of Delaware, John J. Polk, Deputy Attorney General,
Robert A Butterworth, Attorney General of Florida, Scott E. Clodfelter,
Assistant  Attorney  General,  Robert  A  Marks, Attorney  General  of
Hawaii, Larry EchoHawk, Attorney General of Idaho, Brett T DeLange,
Deputy Attorney General, Bonnie J. Campbell, Attorney General of Iowa,
John R. Perkins, Deputy Attorney General, Chris Gorman, Attorney Gen-
eral of Kentucky, Robert V Bullock, Assistant Attorney General, Mike
Moore, Attorney General of Mississippi, Jim Steele, Special Assistant At-
torney General, William L. Webster, Attorney General of Missouri, Henry
T Herschel, Tom Udall, Attorney General of New Mexico, Frankie Sue
Del Papa, Attorney General  of Nevada, Lacy H. Thornburg, Attorney

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 764 (1993)
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE  SOUTER  announced  the judgment of the  Court
and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts
I, II-A, III, and  IV, and an opinion concurring in the judg-
ment with respect to Part II-B.*
The  Sherman  Act makes  every contract, combination,  or
conspiracy in unreasonable  restraint of interstate or foreign
commerce illegal.  26 Stat. 209, as amended,  15 U. S. C. ยง 1.
These consolidated  cases present questions about the appli-
cation of that Act to the insurance  industry, both here and
abroad.  The plaintiffs  (respondents here) allege  that both
domestic and foreign defendants  (petitioners here) violated
the Sherman Act by engaging in various conspiracies  to af-
fect  the American insurance  market.  A group of domestic
defendants argues that the McCarran-Ferguson  Act, 59 Stat.
33, as amended,  15 U. S. C. ยง 1011 et seq., precludes  applica-
tion of the Sherman  Act to  the conduct alleged;  a group of
foreign defendants  argues that the principle of international
comity requires the District Court to refrain from exercising
jurisdiction  over  certain  claims  against  it.  We  hold  that
most of the domestic  defendants'  alleged conduct is not im-
General  of North Carolina,  James C. Gulick, Special  Deputy Attorney
General,  and  K. D. Sturgis, Assistant  Attorney  General,  Nicholas J
Spaeth, Attorney General of North Dakota, David W. Huey, Assistant At-
torney General, James E. O'Neil, Attorney General of Rhode Island, Mau-
reen G. Glynn, Special Assistant  Attorney General,  T  Travis Medlock,
Attorney General of South Carolina, Mark Barnett, Attorney General of
South Dakota, Jeffrey P. Hallem, Assistant  Attorney General, R. Paul
Van Dam, Attorney General of Utah, Patrice Arent and Cy H. Castle,
Assistant  Attorneys General,  Jeffrey L. Amestoy, Attorney General  of
Vermont, Julie Brill, Assistant Attorney General, and Mary Sue Terry,
Attorney General of Virginia; for the National League of Cities et al. by
Lawrence Kill and Anthony P. Coles; and for the Service Station Dealers
of America by Dimitri G. Daskalopoulos.
Richard I. Fine filed a brief for the Service  Industry Council et al. as
amicus curiae.
*JUSTICE WHITE, JUSTICE BLACKMUN, and JUSTICE STEVENS join this
opinion in its entirety, and THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins Parts I, II-A, III,
and IV.

