

Cite as: 532 U. S. 504 (2001)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
mary  reversal-I  dissent  from  the  Court's  disposition  of
this petition.
Without  the benefit  of briefing  or argument,  today  the
Court resolves two difficult questions.  First, it decides that
even if the Court of Appeals' appraisal of the merits is cor-
rect-that is to say, even if the arbitrator did dispense his
own brand of justice untethered to the agreement of the par-
ties, and even if the correct disposition of the matter is per-
fectly clear-the only course open to a reviewing court is to
remand the matter for another arbitration.  That conclusion
is  not compelled  by any  of our  cases, nor by any  analysis
offered by the Court.  As the issue is subject to serious ar-
guments on both sides, the Court should have set this case
for argument if it wanted to answer this remedial  question.
Second, without reviewing the record or soliciting briefing,
the Court concludes that, in any event, "no serious error on
the arbitrator's part is apparent in this case."  Ante, at 511,
n. 2.  At this stage in the proceedings,  I simply cannot en-
dorse that conclusion.  After examining the record, obtain-
ing briefing, and hearing oral argument,  the Court of Ap-
peals  offered a reasoned explanation of its conclusion.  See
203  F. 3d, at 589-592; see also id., at 593-594 (Hawkins, J.,
concurring).  Whether or not I would ultimately agree with
the Ninth Circuit's analysis, I find the Court's willingness to
reverse a factbound  determination of the Court of Appeals
without engaging that court's reasoning a troubling depar-
ture from our normal practice.*
Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.
*The Court's opinion is somewhat ambiguous as to its reasons for over-
turning the portion of the Court of Appeals'  decision  setting aside the
arbitration.  It is unclear whether the majority is saying that a court may
never set aside an arbitration because of a factual error, no matter how
perverse, or whether the Court merely holds that the error in this case
was not sufficiently severe to allow a court to take that step.  If it is the
latter, the Court offers no explanation of what standards it is using or of
its reasons for reaching that conclusion.

NEW PAGE