

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
282  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
courts will evaluate similar factual circumstances differently. 
See Hovenkamp, Antitrust Violations in Securities Markets, 
28 J. Corp. L. 607, 629 (2003) (“Once regulation of an industry 
is entrusted to jury trials, the outcomes of antitrust proceed­
ings will be inconsistent with one another . . . ”).  
Now consider these factors together—the ﬁne securities­
related lines separating the permissible from the impermissi­
ble; the need for securities-related expertise (particularly to 
determine whether an SEC rule is likely permanent); the 
overlapping evidence from which reasonable but contradic­
tory inferences may be drawn; and the risk of inconsistent 
court results.  Together these factors mean there is no prac­
tical way to conﬁne antitrust suits so that they challenge 
only activity of the kind the investors seek to target, activity 
that is presently unlawful and will likely remain unlawful 
under the securities law.  Rather, these factors suggest that 
antitrust courts are likely to make unusually serious mis­
takes in this respect.  And the threat of antitrust mistakes, 
i. e., results that stray outside the narrow bounds that plain­
tiffs seek to set, means that underwriters must act in ways 
that will avoid not simply conduct that the securities law 
forbids (and will likely continue to forbid), but also a wide 
range of joint conduct that the securities law permits or en­
courages (but which they fear could lead to an antitrust law­
suit and the risk of treble damages).  And therein lies the 
problem. 
This kind of problem exists to some degree in respect to 
other antitrust lawsuits.  But here the factors we have men­
tioned make mistakes unusually likely (a matter relevant to 
Congress’ determination of which institution should regulate 
a particular set of market activities).  And the role that joint 
conduct plays in respect to the marketing of IPOs, along with 
the important role IPOs themselves play in relation to the 
effective  functioning  of  capital  markets,  means  that  the 
securities-related costs of mistakes is unusually high.  It is 
no wonder, then, that the SEC told the District Court (con­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  283 
Opinion of the Court 
sistent with what the Government tells us here) that a “fail­
ure to hold that the alleged conduct was immunized would 
threaten to disrupt the full range of the Commission’s ability 
to exercise its regulatory authority,” adding that it would 
have a “chilling effect” on “lawful joint activities . . . of tre­
mendous importance to the economy of the country.”  Brief 
for SEC 39–40, App. D to Pet. for Cert. 157a. 
We believe it fair to conclude that, where conduct at the 
core of the marketing of new securities is at issue; where 
securities regulators proceed with great care to distinguish 
the encouraged and permissible from the forbidden; where 
the  threat  of  antitrust  lawsuits,  through  error  and  disin­
centive, could seriously alter underwriter conduct in unde­
sirable ways, to allow an antitrust lawsuit would threaten 
serious harm to the  efﬁcient functioning of the securities 
markets. 
Second, any enforcement-related need for an antitrust law­
suit is unusually small.  For one thing, the SEC actively en­
forces the rules and regulations that forbid the conduct in 
question.  For another, as we have said, investors harmed 
by underwriters’ unlawful practices may bring lawsuits and 
obtain damages under the securities law.  See supra, at 276– 
277.  Finally, the SEC is itself required to take account of 
competitive considerations when it creates securities-related 
policy and embodies it in rules and regulations.  And that 
fact makes it somewhat less necessary to rely upon antitrust 
actions to address anticompetitive behavior.  See 15 U. S. C. 
§ 77b(b) (instructing the SEC to consider, “in addition to the 
protection of investors, whether the action will promote efﬁ­
ciency, competition, and capital formation”); § 78w(a)(2) (the 
SEC “shall consider among other matters the impact any 
such rule or regulation would have on competition”); Trinko, 
540 U. S., at 412 (“[T]he additional beneﬁt to competition pro­
vided by antitrust enforcement will tend to be small” where 
other laws and regulatory structures are “designed to deter 
and remedy anticompetitive harm”). 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
284  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
We also note that Congress, in an effort to weed out un­
meritorious securities lawsuits, has recently tightened the 
procedural requirements that plaintiffs must satisfy when 
they ﬁle those suits.  To permit an antitrust lawsuit risks 
circumventing these requirements by permitting plaintiffs to 
dress what is essentially a securities complaint in antitrust 
clothing.  See  generally  Private  Securities  Litigation  Re­
form Act of 1995, 109 Stat. 737; Securities Litigation Uniform 
Standards Act of 1998, 112 Stat. 3227. 
In sum, an antitrust action in this context is accompanied 
by a substantial risk of injury to the securities markets and 
by a diminished need for antitrust enforcement to address 
anticompetitive conduct.  Together these considerations in­
dicate a serious conﬂict between, on the one hand, application 
of the antitrust laws and, on the other, proper enforcement 
of the securities law. 
We are aware that the Solicitor General, while recognizing 
the conﬂict, suggests a procedural device that he believes 
will avoid it (in effect, a compromise between the differing 
positions that the SEC and Antitrust Division of the Depart­
ment of Justice took in the courts below).  Compare Brief 
for Dept. of Justice, Antitrust Division, as Amicus Curiae in 
Case No. 01 CIV 2014, p. 23 (seeking no preclusion of the 
antitrust laws), with Brief for SEC 39–40, App. D to Pet. 
for Cert. 155a–157a (seeking total preclusion of the antitrust 
laws).  He asks us to remand this case to the District Court 
so that it can determine “whether respondents’ allegations 
of prohibited conduct can, as a practical matter, be separated 
from conduct that is permitted by the regulatory scheme,” 
and in doing so, the lower court should decide whether SEC­
permitted and SEC-prohibited conduct are “inextricably in­
tertwined.”  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 
9, 26.  The Solicitor General fears that otherwise, we might 
read the law as totally precluding application of the antitrust 
law to underwriting syndicate behavior, even were under­
writers, say, overtly to divide markets. 

