

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
such restrictions might avert vertical integration in the dis-
tribution  process.  Id.,  at 379-380.  The  Court  drew  the
line, however, at permitting manufacturers to control prod-
uct marketing once  dominion over the goods had passed to
dealers.  Id., at 380.
Albrecht, decided the following Term, involved a newspa-
per publisher who had granted exclusive territories to inde-
pendent carriers  subject to their adherence  to a maximum
price on resale of the newspapers to the public.  Influenced
by  its  decisions  in  Socony-Vacuum,  Kiefer-Stewart, and
Schwinn, the Court concluded that it was per se unlawful for
the publisher to fix the maximum resale price  of its news-
papers.  390  U. S.,  at  152-154.  The  Court  acknowledged
that "[m]aximum  and minimum  price  fixing may  have dif-
ferent  consequences  in  many  situations,"  but nonetheless
condemned  maximum price fixing for "substituting the per-
haps  erroneous judgment  of a seller  for the forces  of the
competitive market."  Id., at 152.
Albrecht was  animated  in part by the fear  that vertical
maximum  price fixing could allow suppliers  to discriminate
against  certain  dealers,  restrict  the services  that  dealers
could  afford to offer customers,  or disguise minimum price
fixing schemes.  Id., at  152-153.  The  Court  rejected  the
notion (both on the record of that case and in the abstract)
that, because  the newspaper  publisher  "granted  exclusive
territories, a price ceiling was necessary to protect the public
from price gouging by dealers  who had monopoly power in
their own territories."  Id., at 153.
In a vigorous dissent, Justice Harlan asserted that the ma-
jority had erred in equating the effects of maximum and min-
imum price fixing.  Id., at 156-168.  Justice Harlan pointed
out that, because the majority was establishing a per se rule,
the proper inquiry was "not whether dictation of maximum
prices is ever illegal, but whether it is always illegal."  Id.,
at 165-166.  He  also faulted  the majority for  conclusively
listing  "certain  unfortunate  consequences  that  maximum

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
price dictation might have in other cases," even as it rejected
evidence  that  the publisher's  practice  of fixing  maximum
prices counteracted potentially anticompetitive actions by its
distributors.  Id., at  165.  Justice  Stewart  also  dissented,
asserting that the publisher's maximum price fixing scheme
should be  properly  viewed  as  promoting competition,  be-
cause it protected consumers from dealers such as Albrecht,
who, as "the  only person who could sell for home delivery
the city's only daily morning newspaper," was "a monopolist
within his own territory."  Id., at 168.
Nine years later, in Continental T V, Inc. v.  GTE Syl-
vania Inc., 433 U. S. 36 (1977), the Court overruled Schwinn,
thereby rejecting application of a per se rule in the context
of vertical nonprice restrictions.  The Court acknowledged
the principle of stare decisis, but explained that the need for
clarification in the law justified reconsideration  of Schwinn:
"Since its announcement, Schwinn has been the subject
of continuing  controversy  and  confusion,  both  in  the
scholarly journals and in the federal courts.  The great
weight of scholarly opinion has been critical of the deci-
sion, and a number of the federal courts confronted with
analogous vertical  restrictions  have sought to limit its
reach.  In our view, the experience of the past 10 years
should be brought to bear on this subject of considerable
commercial importance."  433 U. S., at 47-49 (footnotes
omitted).
The Court considered  the historical context  of Schwinn,
noting that Schwinn's per se rule against vertical nonprice
restrictions came only four years after the Court had refused
to endorse  a similar rule in White Motor Co.,  and that the
decision neither explained the "sudden change in position,"
nor referred  to the accepted  requirements for per se viola-
tions set forth in Northern Pacific R. Co.  433 U. S., at 51-
52.  The  Court then  reviewed  scholarly  works  supporting
the economic utility of vertical nonprice restraints.  See id.,

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
at 54-57 (citing, e. g.,  Posner, Antitrust Policy and the Su-
preme  Court: An  Analysis  of the  Restricted  Distribution,
Horizontal Merger and Potential Competition  Decisions, 75
Colum. L. Rev. 282 (1975); Preston, Restrictive Distribution
Arrangements:  Economic Analysis and Public Policy Stand-
ards,  30  Law  & Contemp.  Prob.  506  (1965)).  The  Court
concluded that, because  "departure  from the rule-of-reason
standard must be based upon demonstrable economic effect
rather than-as in Schwinn-upon formalistic line drawing,"
the appropriate  course would be  "to  return to the rule of
reason that governed vertical restrictions prior to Schwinn."
GTE Sylvania, supra, at 58-59.
In GTE Sylvania, the Court declined  to comment on Al-
brecht's per se treatment of vertical maximum price restric-
tions, noting that the issue "involve[d]  significantly different
questions  of analysis  and  policy."  433  U. S.,  at  51,  n.  18.
Subsequent  decisions  of the  Court, however,  have  hinted
that the  analytical  underpinnings  of  Albrecht were  sub-
stantially weakened by GTE Sylvania.  We noted in Mari-
copa County that  vertical  restraints  are  generally  more
defensible than horizontal restraints.  See 457 U. S., at 348,
n. 18.  And we explained in 324 Liquor Corp. v. Duffy, 479
U. S. 335, 341-342  (1987),  that decisions  such  as GTE Syl-
vania "recognize  the  possibility  that  a vertical  restraint
imposed by a single manufacturer or wholesaler may stimu-
late  interbrand  competition  even  as  it reduces  intrabrand
competition."
Most recently, in ARCO, 495 U. S.3 28 (1990), although Al-
brecht's continuing  validity  was  not  squarely  before  the
Court, some disfavor with that decision was signaled by our
statement that we would "assume, arguendo, that Albrecht
correctly held that vertical, maximum price fixing is subject
to the per se rule."  495  U. S.,  at 335, n. 5.  More  signifi-
cantly, we specifically  acknowledged that vertical maximum
price  fixing "may have procompetitive  interbrand effects,"
and pointed out that, in the wake  of GTE Sylvania, "[tihe

