

BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
JUSTICE STEVENS,  dissenting.
In his classic dissent in Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45,
75 (1905), Justice Holmes reminded us that our disagreement
with the economic theory embodied in legislation should not
affect our judgment about its constitutionality.  It is equally
important,  of course, to be faithful to the economic  theory
underlying broad statutory mandates when we are constru-
ing their impact on areas of the economy not specifically ad-
dressed by their texts.  The unique features of this case lead
me  to conclude  that the Court has  reached  a decision that
conflicts  with the basic purpose  of both the antitrust laws
and the national labor policy expressed in a series of congres-
sional enactments.
I
The basic premise underlying the Sherman Act is the as-
sumption that free competition among business  entities will
produce  the  best  price  levels.  National Soc.  of Profes-
sional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 695 (197.8).
Collusion  among  competitors,  it  is believed,  may produce
prices  that  harm  consumers.  United States  v.  Socony-
Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 226, n. 59 (1940).  Similarly,
the Court has held, a marketwide agreement among employ-
ers setting wages at levels that would not prevail in a free
market may  violate the Sherman Act.  Anderson v. Ship-
owners Assn. of Pacific Coast, 272 U. S. 359 (1926).
The jury's  verdict in  this  case has  determined  that the
marketwide agreement among these employers fixed the sal-
aries of the replacement players at a dramatically lower level
than would obtain in a free market.  While the special char-
acteristics of this industry may provide a justification for the
agreement under the rule of reason, see National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. v. Board of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468
U. S. 85, 100-104  (1984), at this stage of the proceeding our
analysis of the exemption issue must accept the premise that
the agreement is unlawful unless it is exempt.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 518 U. S. 231 (1996)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
The basic premise underlying our national labor policy is
that unregulated  competition  among employees  and  appli-
cants for employment produces  wage levels that are  lower
than they should be.'  Whether or not the premise is true
in fact, it is surely the basis for the statutes that encourage
and protect the collective-bargaining  process,  including the
express statutory exemptions from  the antitrust laws  that
Congress  enacted  in  order  to  protect  union  activities.2
Those  statutes were enacted to enable collective  action by
union members to achieve wage levels that are higher than
would be available in a free market.  See Trainmen v. Chi-
cago R. & L R. Co., 353 U. S. 30, 40 (1957).
The statutory labor exemption protects the right of work-
ers to act  collectively  to seek better wages, but does  not
I "The inequality of bargaining power between employees who do not
possess full freedom of association or actual liberty of contract, and em-
ployers who are organized in the corporate or other forms of ownership
association substantially burdens  and affects the flow of commerce,  and
tends to aggravate recurrent business  depressions, by depressing wage
rates and the purchasing power of wage earners in industry and by pre-
venting the stabilization of competitive wage rates and working conditions
within and between industries."  29 U. S. C. § 151; R. Posner & F. Easter-
brook, Antitrust 31 (2d ed. 1981) ("The main purpose of labor unions is to
raise wages by suppressing competition among workers . . ."); see also
Meat Cutters v. Jewel Tea Co., 381 U. S. 676, 723 (1965) (opinion of Gold-
berg, J.)  ("The very purpose and effect of a labor union is to limit the
power  of an employer to use  competition among workingmen  to  drive
down wage rates and enforce  substandard  conditions  of employment").
2,The basic sources of organized labor's exemption from federal  anti-
trust laws are  §§ 6 and 20 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 731  and 738, 15
U. S. C. § 17 and 29 U. S. C. § 52, and the Norris-LaGuardia Act, 47 Stat.
70, 71, and 73,29 U. S. C. §§ 104, 105, and 113.  These statutes declare that
labor unions are not combinations or conspiracies  in restraint of trade,
and exempt specific  union activities, including secondary picketing  and
boycotts, from the operation of the antitrust laws.  See United States v.
Hutcheson, 312 U. S. 219 (1941).  They do not exempt concerted action
or agreements between unions and nonlabor parties.  Mine Workers v.
Pennington,3 81 U. S. 657, 662 (1965)."  Connell Constr. Co. v. Plumbers,
421 U. S. 616, 621-622 (1975).

NEW PAGE

BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
"exempt concerted action or agreements between unions and
nonlabor  parties."  Connell Constr. Co. v.  Plumbers, 421
U. S. 616,  621-622 (1975).  It is the judicially crafted, non-
statutory labor exemption  that serves  to  accommodate the
conflicting policies  of the antitrust and labor statutes in the
context of action between employers and unions.  Ibid.
The limited judicial exemption  complements its statutory
counterpart by ensuring that unions which engage in collec-
tive bargaining to enhance  employees' wages may enjoy the
benefits  of the resulting  agreements.  The purpose  of the
labor laws would be frustrated if it were illegal for employ-
ers to enter into industrywide agreements providing supra-
competitive wages for employees.  For that reason, we have
explained  that "a proper accommodation  between the con-
gressional  policy  favoring  collective  bargaining  under the
NLRA  and the congressional policy favoring free competi-
tion in business markets requires that some union-employer
agreements  be accorded  a  limited nonstatutory  exemption
from antitrust sanctions."  Id., at 622.
Consistent with basic labor law policies,  I agree with the
Court that the judicially crafted labor exemption must also
cover some collective action that employers take in response
to a collective-bargaining agent's demands for higher wages.
Immunizing such  action from antitrust scrutiny may facili-
tate collective bargaining over labor demands.  So, too, may
immunizing concerted  employer action designed to maintain
the integrity of the multiemployer  bargaining unit, such as
lockouts that are imposed in response to "a union strike tac-
tic which threatens the destruction of the employers' interest
in bargaining on a group basis."  NLRB v. Truck Drivers,
353 U. S. 87, 93 (1957).
In my view, however, neither the policies underlying the
two separate statutory schemes, nor the narrower focus on
the purpose of the nonstatutory exemption, provides a justi-
fication for exempting from antitrust scrutiny collective ac-
tion initiated by employers to depress wages below the level

