

BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
more reason to exempt this concerted,  anticompetitive  em-
ployer action  from the antitrust laws than the action  held
unlawful in Radovich v. National FootballL  eague, 352 U. S.
445 (1957).
The point of identifying the unique features of this case is
not, as the Court suggests, to make the case that professional
football players, alone among workers, should be entitled to
enforce the antitrust laws against anticompetitive collective
employer  action.  Ante, at 249.  Other  employees,  no less
than well-paid athletes, are entitled to the protections of the
antitrust laws when their employers unite to undertake anti-
competitive action that causes them direct harm and alters
the state of employer-employee  relations that existed prior
to unionization.  Here that alteration occurred because the
wage terms that the employers unilaterally imposed directly
conflict with a pre-existing principle  of agreement between
the  bargaining  parties.  In  other  contexts,  the  alteration
may take  other  similarly anticompetitive  and  unjustifiable
forms.
III
Although  exemptions  should be construed  narrowly, and
judicially crafted exemptions more narrowly still, the Court
provides  a sweeping justification for the exemption  that it
creates  today.  The consequence is a newly minted exemp-
tion that, as I shall explain, the Court crafts only by ignoring
the reasoning of one  of our prior decisions in favor of the
views of the dissenting Justice in that case.  Of course, the
Court actually holds only that this new exemption applies in
cases such as the present in which the parties to the bargain-
ing process  are affected  by the challenged  anticompetitive
conduct.  Ante, at 250.  But that welcome limitation on its
opinion fails to make the Court's explanation of its result in
this case any more persuasive.
The Court explains that the nonstatutory labor exemption
serves to ensure that "antitrust courts" will not end up sub-
stituting their views  of labor policy for those  of either the

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 518 U. S. 231 (1996)
STEVENS,  J., dissenting
Labor Board or the bargaining parties.  Ante, at 236-237.
The Court concludes,  therefore, that almost any  concerted
action by employers that touches on a mandatory subject of
collective bargaining, no matter how obviously  offensive to
the  policies  underlying  the  Nation's  antitrust  statutes,
should  be immune  from  scrutiny  so  long  as  a  collective-
bargaining process is in place.  It notes that a contrary con-
clusion would  require "antitrust courts, insulated from the
bargaining process,  to investigate  an employer group's sub-
jective motive,"  a task that it believes too "amorphous"  to
be permissible.  Ante, at 247.
The argument that "antitrust courts" should be kept out
of the collective-bargaining  process has a venerable lineage.
See Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S.  443,
483-488  (1921)  (Brandeis, J., joined by Holmes  and  Clarke,
JJ.,  dissenting).  Our  prior  precedents  subscribing  to  its
basic point, however, do not justify the conclusion that em-
ployees have no recourse other than the Labor Board when
employers collectively undertake anticompetitive action.  In
fact, they contradict it.
We have previously considered the scope of the nonstatu-
tory labor exemption  only in cases  involving challenges  to
anticompetitive agreements between unions and  employers
brought by other employers not parties to those agreements.
Ante, at 243.  Even then, we have concluded that the exemp-
tion does not always apply.  See Mine Workers v. Penning-
ton, 381 U. S., at 663.
As Pennington explained, the mere fact that an antitrust
challenge touches on an issue, such as wages, that is subject
to mandatory bargaining does not suffice to trigger the judi-
cially fashioned exemption.  Id., at 664.  Moreover, we con-
cluded that the exemption should not obtain in Pennington
itself only after we examined the motives of one of the par-
ties to the bargaining process.  Id., at 667.
The Court's only attempt to square its decision with Pen-
nington occurs at the close of its opinion.  It concludes that

NEW PAGE

BROWN v. PRO FOOTBALL, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
the exemption applies because  the employers'  action "grew
out of, and was  directly related to, the lawful  operation  of
the bargaining process," "[i]t involved a matter that the par-
ties were required to negotiate collectively,"  and that "con-
cerned only the parties to the collective-bargaining  relation-
ship."  Ante, at 250.
As to the first two qualifiers,  the same  could be said of
Pennington.  Indeed,  the  same  was  said  and rejected in
Pennington.  "This is not to say that an agreement result-
ing from  union-employer  negotiations  is  automatically  ex-
empt from Sherman Act scrutiny simply because the negotia-
tions involve a compulsory subject of bargaining, regardless
of the subject or the form  and content of the agreement."
381 U. S.,  at 664-665.
The final qualifier does  distinguish Pennington, but only
partially so.  To determine whether the exemption  applied
in  Pennington, we undertook  a  detailed  examination  into
whether the policies of labor law so strongly supported the
agreement struck by the bargaining parties that it  should be
immune from antitrust scrutiny.  We concluded that because
the agreement affected employers not parties to the bargain-
ing process,  labor law policies  could  not be understood  to
require the exemption.
Here, however, the Court does not undertake  a review of
labor law policy to determine whether it  would support an
exemption  for  the unilateral  imposition  of anticompetitive
wage terms  by employers  on a union.  The  Court appears
to conclude instead that the exemption should apply merely
because  the  employers'  action  was  implemented  during a
lawful negotiating process concerning  a mandatory  subject
of bargaining.  Thus,  the  Court's  analysis  would  seem to
constitute both an unprecedented  expansion  of a heretofore
limited  exemption,  and  an  unexplained  repudiation  of the
reasoning  in  a prior, nonconstitutional  decision  that  Con-
gress itself has not seen fit to override.

