

242  BROOKE GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
Opinion of the Court
ated strong pressure for them to sell more generic cigarettes.
In addition, as we have already observed, see supra, at 236,
many wholesalers passed portions of the rebates about which
Liggett complains on to consumers, thus dropping the retail
price of generics and further stimulating demand.  Brown &
Williamson provided a further, direct stimulus, through some
$10  million it spent during the period of alleged predation
placing discount  stickers  on  its  generic  cartons  to  reduce
prices  to the ultimate  consumer.  70  Tr. 246.  In  light of
these  uncontested  facts  about  Brown  & Williamson's  con-
duct, it is not reasonable to conclude that Brown & William-
son  threatened  in  a  serious  way  to  restrict  output,  raise
prices  above  a  competitive  level,  and  artificially  slow  the
growth  of the  economy  segment  of the national  cigarette
market.
To be sure, Liggett's economic  expert explained  Liggett's
theory of predatory  price  discrimination  and  testified  that
he believed  it  created  a  reasonable  possibility  that  Brown
& Williamson could injure competition in the United States
cigarette market as a whole.  App. 600-614.  But this does
not alter our analysis.  When an expert opinion is not sup-
ported by sufficient facts to validate it in the eyes of the law,
or when  indisputable  record  facts  contradict  or  otherwise
render the opinion unreasonable,  it cannot support  a jury's
verdict.  Cf. J  Truett Payne Co., Inc., 451  U. S., at 564-565
(referring to expert economic testimony not based on "docu-
mentary evidence  as  to the  effect of the discrimination  on
retail prices" as "weak" at best).  Expert testimony is useful
as a guide to interpreting market facts, but it is not a substi-
tute for them.  As we observed in Matsushita, "expert opin-
ion evidence..,  has little probative value in comparison with
the economic  factors" that may dictate  a particular  conclu-
sion.  475 U. S., at 594, n. 19.  Here, Liggett's expert based
his opinion that Brown & Williamson had a reasonable pros-
pect  of  recouping  its  predatory  losses  on  three  factors:
Brown & Williamson's black and white pricing structure, cor-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 509 U. S. 209 (1993)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
porate documents  showing an intent to shrink the price dif-
ferential  between  generic and branded  cigarettes, and  evi-
dence of below-cost pricing.  App. 601-602.  Because, as we
have  explained,  this evidence  is insufficient as  a matter of
law  to support  a  finding of primary-line  injury  under the
Robinson-Patman  Act, the expert testimony  cannot sustain
the jury's verdict.
IV
We  understand  that the chain of reasoning  by which  we
have concluded that Brown & Williamson is entitled to judg-
ment  as a matter  of law  is  demanding.  But  a reasonable
jury is presumed to know and understand the law, the facts
of the case, and the realities  of the market.  We hold  that
the evidence cannot support a finding that Brown & William-
son's alleged scheme was likely to result in oligopolistic price
coordination and  sustained  supracompetitive  pricing in the
generic segment of the national cigarette market.  Without
this, Brown & Williamson had no reasonable  prospect of re-
couping its predatory losses and could not inflict the injury
to competition the antitrust laws prohibit.  The judgment of
the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
JUSTICE  STEVENS,  with  whom  JUSTICE  WHITE  and
JUSTICE BLACKMUN join, dissenting.
For a period  of 18 months in  1984  and  1985, respondent
Brown  & Williamson  Tobacco  Corporation  (B&W) waged  a
price war against petitioner, known then as Liggett & Myers
(Liggett).  Liggett  filed  suit  claiming  that  B&W's  pricing
practices violated the Robinson-Patman  Act.'  After a  115-
"It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commerce, in the course
of such  commerce, either directly or indirectly, to discriminate  in price
between different purchasers of commodities of like grade and quality...
where  the effect  of such discrimination  may  be  substantially to  lessen
competition or tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce, or to
injure, destroy, or prevent competition with any person who either grants

NEW PAGE

244  BROOKE  GROUP LTD. v. BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO CORP.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
day trial, the jury agreed,  and awarded Liggett substantial
damages.  The Court of Appeals, however, found that Lig-
gett could not succeed on its claim, because B&W, as an inde-
pendent actor controlling only 12%  of the national cigarette
market, could not injure competition.  Liggett Group, Inc. v.
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 964 F. 2d 335, 340-342
(CA4 1992).
Today, the Court properly rejects that holding.  See ante,
at 229-230.  Instead of remanding the case to the Court of
Appeals  to resolve the  other issues  raised  by the  parties,
however, the Court goes on to review portions of the volumi-
nous trial record, and comes  to the conclusion  that the evi-
dence does not support the jury's finding that B&W's price
discrimination "had a reasonable possibility of injuring com-
petition.''2  In my opinion the evidence  is plainly sufficient
to support that finding.
or knowingly receives the benefit of such discrimination, or with custom-
ers of either of them .. . ."  15 U. S. C. ยง 13(a).
2 The jury gave an affirmative answer to the following special issue:
"1. Did Brown & Williamson engage in price discrimination that had a
reasonable possibility of injuring competition in the cigarette market as a
whole in the United States?"  App. 27.
The jury made its finding after being instructed that "injury to competi-
tion" means "the injury to consumer welfare which results when a compet-
itor is able to raise and to maintain prices in a market or well-defined
submarket above  competitive  levels.  In order to injure competition in
the cigarette market as a whole, Brown & Williamson must be able to
create a real possibility of both driving out rivals by loss-creating price
cutting and then holding on to that advantage to recoup losses by raising
and maintaining prices at higher than competitive levels.
"You  must remember  that the Robinson-Patman  Act was designed to
protect competition rather than just competitors and, therefore, injury to
competition does not mean injury to a competitor.  Liggett & Myers can
not  satisfy this element simply  by showing  that they were injured  by
Brown & Williamson's conduct.  To satisfy this element, Liggett & Myers
must show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that Brown & Williamson's
conduct had a reasonable  possibility of injuring competition in the ciga-
rette market and not just a reasonable possibility of injuring a competitor
in the cigarette market."  Id., at 829-830.

