

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
182  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
* * * 
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court of Ap­
peals for the Eighth Circuit is reversed, and the case is re­
manded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. 
It is so ordered. 
Justice  Stevens,  with  whom  Justice  Thomas  joins, 
dissenting. 
Franchised dealers who sell Volvo trucks, like those who 
sell automobiles, farm equipment, washing machines, and a 
variety of other expensive items, routinely engage in negoti­
ations with prospective purchasers.  Sometimes the pros­
pect is simultaneously negotiating with two Volvo dealers, 
sometimes with a Volvo dealer and a dealer representing an­
other manufacturer, and still other times a satisﬁed customer 
who is generally familiar with the options available in a com­
petitive market may negotiate with only one dealer at a time. 
Until today, the Robinson-Patman Act’s prohibition of price 
discrimination1 would have protected the dealer’s ability to 
negotiate in all those situations.  Today, however, by adopt­
ing a novel, transaction-speciﬁc concept of competition, the 
Court eliminates that statutory protection in all but those 
rare situations in which a prospective purchaser is negotiat­
ing with two Volvo dealers at the same time. 
I 
Setting aside for the moment the fact that the case in­
volves goods specially ordered for particular customers 
1 Section 2 of the Clayton Act, as amended by § 1 of the Robinson-
Patman Act, provides in relevant part: 
“It shall be unlawful for any person...to discriminate in price between 
different purchasers of commodities of like grade and quality . . . where the 
effect of such discrimination may be substantially to lessen competition or 
tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce, or to injure, destroy, 
or prevent competition with any person who either grants or knowingly 
receives the beneﬁt of such discrimination, or with customers of either of 
them.”  38 Stat. 730, as amended, 49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C. § 13(a). 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  183 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
rather than goods stocked in inventory, the case is a rather 
ordinary  Robinson-Patman  suit.  Respondent  Reeder  al­
leged a violation of the Act; the parties submitted a good deal 
of conﬂicting evidence to the jury; the trial judge properly 
instructed the jurors on the elements of price discrimination, 
competitive injury, and damages; and the jury returned a 
verdict resolving all issues in Reeder’s favor.  The Court 
of Appeals found no error in either the instructions or the 
sufﬁciency of the evidence.  374 F. 3d 701 (CA8 2004). 
Two issues of fact bear particular mention. 
First, Volvo does not challenge the jury’s ﬁnding of price 
discrimination.  Reeder’s theory of the case was that Volvo 
sought to cut back its number of dealers and deemed Reeder 
expendable.  To avoid possible violations of franchise agree­
ments and state laws, Volvo chose to accomplish this goal by 
offering Reeder worse prices than other regional dealers. 
Reeder introduced substantial evidence of this theory.  It 
showed that Volvo had an explicit business strategy, known 
as the “Volvo Vision,” of “fewer dealers, larger markets.” 
App. 34.  It showed that Volvo could afford to lose sales as 
it squeezed dealers out, since the boom years of the late 
1990’s left Volvo with about as many orders as it could ﬁll. 
Id., at 256–257.  And it showed that Volvo frequently gave 
worse prices to it than to other regional dealers.  On at least 
four occasions, Volvo sold trucks to Reeder at signiﬁcantly 
higher prices than to other dealers buying similar trucks 
around the same time.2  To give one example, in the spring 
of 1998 Volvo sold 20 trucks to Reeder at a 9% concession, 
but sold similar trucks to a Texas dealer at a 12.3% conces­
sion.  Id., at 132–134.  This left Reeder paying $2,606 more 
per truck.  Id., at 134.  Although the Court chides Reeder 
2 Additionally, on more than 12 other occasions, Volvo offered worse 
deals to Reeder than it gave to dealers who made comparable purchases. 
Arguably due to Volvo’s stingy concessions, Reeder failed to close with its 
customers in these instances and thus never ended up buying the trucks 
at issue from Volvo. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
184  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
for failing to perform statistical analyses, see ante, at 172– 
173, 178, the jury clearly had a sufﬁcient basis for ﬁnding 
price discrimination.  It could infer that Volvo’s pricing poli­
cies were comparable to a secret catalog listing one set of 
low prices for its “A” dealers and a higher set for its “B” 
dealers  like  Reeder,  with  an  exception  providing  for  the 
same prices where an “A” dealer and a “B” dealer were en­
gaged in negotiations with the same customer at the same 
time. 
Second, the jury found that the favored dealers at issue 
in these comparisons were competitive players in the same 
geographic market as Reeder.  This conclusion is implicit in 
the jury’s ﬁnding of competitive injury, since the jury in­
struction on that element required Reeder to prove 
“a substantial difference in price in sales by defendant 
to plaintiff and other competing Volvo dealers over a 
signiﬁcant  period  of  time.  This  requires  plaintiff  to 
show that it and the other Volvo dealer(s) were retail 
dealers within the same geographic market and that the 
effect of the price differential was to allow the other 
Volvo dealer(s) to draw sales or proﬁts away from plain­
tiff.”  App. 480, Instruction No. 18. 
Volvo does not dispute that the evidence was sufﬁcient to 
support the jury ﬁnding that Reeder and the favored dealers 
operated in the same geographic market.3  Volvo’s restraint 
is wise, as Reeder offered evidence that truck buyers are 
unsurprisingly mobile, that it delivered trucks to purchasers 
throughout the region, and that customers would sometimes 
solicit bids from more than one regional Volvo dealer. 
3 Similarly, and despite its selective discussion of the extensive eviden­
tiary record, ante, at 170–173, the Court does not question the sufﬁciency 
of the evidence supporting the jury’s ﬁnding that Volvo engaged in price 
discrimination against Reeder relative to other regional Volvo dealers for 
a signiﬁcant period of time. 

