

Cite as: 532 U. S. 504 (2001)
Per Curiam
the 1989  season, but that the  Padres  refused to negotiate
with Garvey thereafter due to collusion.
The arbitrator denied Garvey's  claim, after seeking addi-
tional documentation from the parties.  In his award, he ex-
plained that "'t]here  exists ... substantial doubt as to the
credibility of the statements in the Smith letter."'  Id., at
586.  He noted the "stark contradictions" between the 1996
letter and Smith's testimony in the earlier arbitration  pro-
ceedings regarding  collusion, where  Smith, like other own-
ers, denied collusion and stated that the Padres simply were
not interested in extending  Garvey's  contract.  Ibid.  The
arbitrator  determined that, due to these contradictions,  he
"'must  reject  [Smith's]  more recent  assertion  that Garvey
did not receive [a contract] extension'"  due to collusion, and
found that Garvey had not shown a specific offer of exten-
sion.  Ibid.  He concluded:
"'The shadow cast over the credibility of the Smith tes-
timony coupled with the absence of any other corrobora-
tion of the claim submitted by Garvey compels a finding
that the Padres declined to extend his contract not be-
cause  of the  constraints  of the  collusion  effort  of the
clubs  but rather as a baseball judgment founded  upon
[Garvey's] age and recent injury history."'  Ibid.
Garvey moved in Federal District Court to vacate the ar-
bitrator's  award,  alleging  that the  arbitrator  violated  the
Framework  by denying his claim.  The District Court de-
nied the motion.  The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
reversed by a  divided vote.  The court acknowledged  that
judicial review of an arbitrator's decision in a labor dispute
is extremely limited.  But it held that review of the merits
of the arbitrator's award was warranted in this case, because
the arbitrator  "'dispensed  his own brand of industrial jus-
tice."'  Id., at 589.  The court recognized that Smith's prior
testimony with respect to collusion conflicted with the state-
ments in his 1996 letter.  But in the court's view, the arbitra-

NEW PAGE

508  MAJOR  LEAGUE  BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN. v. GARVEY
Per Curiam
tor's refusal to credit Smith's letter was "inexplicable" and
"border[ed] on the irrational," because a panel of arbitrators,
chaired by the arbitrator involved here, had previously con-
cluded that the owners' prior testimony was false.  Id., at
590.  The court rejected the arbitrator's reliance on the ab-
sence  of other corroborating evidence, attributing that fact
to Smith and Garvey's  direct negotiations.  The court also
found  that  the  record  provided  "strong  support" for  the
truthfulness  of Smith's  1996  letter.  Id.,  at 591-592.  The
Court of Appeals reversed and remanded with directions to
vacate the award.
The District Court then remanded the case to the arbitra-
tion panel for further hearings, and Garvey appealed.  The
Court of Appeals,  again by a divided vote, explained  that
Garvey I  established that "the conclusion that Smith made
Garvey  an offer  and  subsequently  withdrew  it because  of
the collusion scheme was the only conclusion  that the arbi-
trator  could  draw  from  the  record  in  the  proceedings."
No. 00-56080, 2000 WL  1801383, *1 (CA9, Dec. 7, 2000) (un-
published), judgt. order reported at 243 F. 3d 547 (Garvey
II).  Noting that its prior instructions might have been un-
clear, the court clarified that Garvey I "left only one possible
result-the  result our  holding  contemplated-an  award  in
Garvey's  favor."  2000 WL  1801383,  at  *1.  The  Court of
Appeals  reversed  the  District  Court  and  directed  that it
remand  the case to the arbitration panel with instructions
to enter an award for Garvey in the amount he claimed.'
IGarvey contends that, because the Association's petition was filed more
than 90 days after Garvey I, we cannot consider a challenge raising issues
resolved in that decision.  But there is no question that the Association's
petition was filed in sufficient time for us to review Garvey II, and we
have authority to consider questions determined in earlier stages of the
litigation where certiorari is sought from the most recent of the judgments
of the Court of Appeals.  Mercer v. Theriot, 377 U. S.  152 (1964)  (per
curiam);H  amilton-Brown Shoe Co. v. Wolf Brothers & Co., 240 U. S. 251,
258 (1916).

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 532 U. S. 504 (2001)
Per Curiam
The parties do not dispute that this case arises under ยง 301
of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, 61 Stat. 156,
29 U. S. C. ยง 185(a), as the controversy involves an assertion
of rights  under an agreement  between  an employer  and a
labor organization.  Although Garvey's specific allegation is
that the  arbitrator  violated  the  Framework  for  resolving
players' claims for damages, that Framework was designed
to facilitate  payments to  remedy the Clubs' breach  of the
collective-bargaining agreement.  Garvey's right to be made
whole is founded on that agreement.
Judicial review of a labor-arbitration decision pursuant to
such an agreement is very limited.  Courts are not author-
ized to review the arbitrator's decision on the merits despite
allegations that the decision rests on factual errors or misin-
terprets  the  parties'  agreement.  Paperworkers v. Misco,
Inc., 484 U. S. 29, 36 (1987).  We recently reiterated that if
an "'arbitrator  is even arguably construing or applying the
contract and  acting within the  scope of his authority,'  the
fact that 'a court is convinced  he committed  serious error
does not suffice to overturn his decision."'  Eastern Associ-
ated Coal Corp. v. Mine Workers, 531  U. S.  57,  62 (2000)
(quoting Misco, supra,a t 38).  It is only when the arbitrator
strays from interpretation and application of the agreement
and effectively "dispense[s]  his own brand of industrial jus-
tice" that his decision may be unenforceable.  Steelworkers
v. Enterprise Wheel & Car Corp., 363 U. S. 593, 597 (1960).
When an arbitrator resolves disputes regarding the applica-
tion of a contract, and no dishonesty is alleged, the arbitra-
tor's "improvident, even silly, factfinding"  does not provide
a basis for a reviewing court to refuse to enforce the award.
Misco, 484 U. S., at 39.
In discussing the courts' limited role in reviewing the mer-
its of arbitration awards, we have stated that "'courts  ...
have no business weighing the merits of the grievance  [or]
considering whether there is equity in a particular claim."'

