

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of the Court.  361 U. S.
but in its coordination of all other forms.'  79 Cong. Rec.
12207.  'The wisdom and experience of that commission,'
not of the courts, must determine whether the proposed
[acquisition]  is  'consistent  with  the  public  interest.'
Cf. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central
R. Co., 215 U. S. 452; Pennsylvania Co. v. United States,
236 U. S. 351; United States v. Chicago Heights Trucking
Co., 310 U. S.  344;  Purcell v.  United States, 315 U. S.
381."  321 U. S., at 87-88.
Here,  the Commission gave extensive  consideration  to
the anti-competitive contentions advanced by appellants,
devoting more than five pages of its report to that matter.
It  found  that "[a]ll  the carriers  endeavoring  to partici-
pate in its control are in competition with Western"; that
the "important thing is not whether there is possibility of
competition,  but whether there is probability of existing
or potential competition being diminished or strangled by
the' Western  under the control of  the Santa  Fe and  the
Pennsylvania."  After an extended analysis of the com-
plex facts and conflicting evidence, the Commission found
that control of Western by the Santa Fe and Pennsylvania
would  not result in any significant  lessening of competi-
tion.  It  pointed to the fact that although the Santa Fe's
"long haul" is to Chicago and the Pennsylvania's "next to
longest haul"  is  also  to  Chicago  (its longest haul being
to St. Louis)  the Santa Fe has agreed,  and is bound, "to
place Lomax on a parity with Chicago from. a solicitation
standpoint,  and  . . . the  Pennsylvania  will  recognize
Effner as one of its principal interchanges along with Chi-
cago and St. Louis";  that "there may be some diversion
of  traffic,  but  such  diversion  would  not  jeopardize  the
maintenance  of  adequate  transportation  service  by the
objecting intervening  carriers."
The Commission  also pointed to the fact that Western
had  been  in  a  prolonged  receivership  until  1927  when
George P. McNear acquired its stock at a receiver's  sale,

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  189
173  Opinion  of the Court.
Toledo, P. & W. R. Co. Acquisition, 124 I. C. C. 181.  It
further found that Western's modern existence  began at
that time and, under the guidance of McNear,  was built
into a fine railroad; that since McNear's  death, in 1947,
the  present  management  has  continued,  with  much
success,  the policies  he  established.  Those  policies,  the
Commission  found,  were,  and  are,  "to  maintain  strict
neutrality between  all connections,  and to participate in
any  haul  of  traffic  no  matter  how  slight  [as  a  bridge]
carrier  through Peoria as an alternative route, bypassing
the congested  terminals  of Chicago  and  St. Louis,"  and
that those policies are to be continued under the Santa Fe-
Pennsylvania plan.
. We think it is clear from this summary of its analysis
and  findings  that  the  Commission  fully  estimated  the
scope and appraised the effects of any curtailment of com-
petition  which  might  result  from  the  acquisition  of
Western  by the  Santa  Fe and  Pennsylvania,  and, after
having done so, concluded that their acquisition  and plan
of operation of Western would not result in any significant
lessening  of competition.  Congress has left the  task of
making that determination  to the wisdom and experience
of the Commission.  The determination it has made rests
upon adequate findings which are, in turn, supported by
substantial evidence  and is  well  within  the  limits of its
discretion  under  the Act.
Appellants  argue that the Pennsylvania,  in  actuality,
contracted  to  purchase  507  of the  Western  stock  from
Wilmington  Trust Company, a co-.trustee of the McNear
trust, and that, since four persons were directors of both
companies,  that  proposed  stock  purchase  violates  § 10
of  the Clayton  Act;  that  the Commission  was  without
power  to  approve  it;  that, in  any  event, its  action  in
"condoning"  it was an abuse of power; and that the Dis-
trict Court, for those reasons also. erred in upholding the
Commission's order.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of the  Court.  361 U. S.
The  Commission  found that the Santa Fe in  entering
into the contract of May 26, 1955, with the trustees of the
McNear trust was "acting on behalf of that carrier alone."
But even if we assume, for present purposes, that it was
acting as well for the Pennsylvania, the result must be the
same.  Section 10 of the Clayton Act prohibits a common
carrier engaged  in commerce  from having  "any dealings
in securities" -of more than  $50,000,  in the aggregate, in
any one year, "with another corporation,  ...when  the
said common  carrier  shall have upon  its board  of direc-
tors  ...any person who is at  the same  time a director
[of]  such other corporation  ..., except such purchases
[as]  shall  be  made  ...by  competitive  bidding  under
regulations  to  be  prescribed  by  [the]  Commission."
38 Stat. 734, 15  U. S. C. § 20.
Section  10 of  the  Clayton  Act  is,  of  course, an  anti-
trust law,'2 and much of what we have just said relative
to the problem of accommodation  of § 5 (2)  of the Inter-
state  Commerce  Act  and  the  antitrust  laws  is  equally
applicable  to  this  contention.  The  evident  purpose  of
§ 10  of  the  Clayton  Act  was  to  prohibit  a  corporation
from abusing a carrier  by palming off upon it securities.
supplies  and other  articles without  competitive  bidding
and at excessive prices through overreaching by, or other
misfeasance  of, common directors,  to the financial injury
of the carrier and the consequent impairment of its ability
to serve the public interest.3  But, even if this purchase
12 It is clear that § 10 of the Clayton Act is included  in the "anti-
trust laws"  referred  to in  § 5 (11)  of the  Interstate Commerce Act.
Section  1 of the Clayton  Act,  15 U. S. C.  (1952  ed.)  § 12,  provides
that " 'Anti-trust  laws,'  as used in sections  12,  13,  14-21,  and 22-27
of this title, includes sections  1-27 of this title."  Moreover,  § 5 (11)
voids  any ambiguity  by  including "all  other. restraints, limitations,
and prohibitions  of law,  Federal, State, or municipal."
The legislative history of § 10 of the Clayton Act, though meager,
support-  the  view  stated in  the text.  In  fact,  the language  of the
several  drafts  of  § 10,  together  with  the  types  of abuses  cited  in

