OCTOBER  TERM, 2003
Syllabus
UNITED  STATES POSTAL  SERVICE  v.  FLAMINGO
INDUSTRIES  (USA) LTD. ET  AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 02-1290.  Argued December 1, 2003-Decided February 25, 2004
After their contract to make mail sacks for the United States Postal Serv-
ice was terminated, respondents  brought this suit alleging, inter alia,
that the Postal Service had sought to suppress competition and create
a monopoly in mail sack production.  The District Court dismissed the
antitrust  claims,  concluding  that  the  Postal  Service  is  not  subject
to liability under federal  antitrust law.  The Ninth  Circuit reversed,
holding that the Postal  Service can  be liable but that it has a limited
immunity from antitrust liability for conduct undertaken at Congress'
command.
Held: The Postal  Service  is not  subject to  antitrust liability.  In both
form and function, it is not a separate antitrust person from the United
States but is part of the Government, and so is not controlled by the
antitrust laws.  Pp. 739-748.
(a) The waiver of immunity from suit provided by the Postal Reorga-
nization Act (PRA)-which gives the Postal Service the power "to sue
and be sued in its official name," 39 U. S.C. §401-does not suffice by
its own terms to subject the Postal Service to liability under the Sher-
man Act.  The two-step analysis of FDIC v. Meyer, 510 U. S.4 71, 484,
applies here.  Meyer's first step is met because the PRA's sue-and-be-
sued clause effects a waiver of sovereign immunity for actions against
the Postal  Service.  However, Meyer's second  step  for finding liabil-
ity-whether the Sherman Act's substantive  prohibitions apply to the
Postal Service-is not satisfied.  The Sherman Act imposes liability on
any 'person,"  defined "to include corporations and associations existing
under or authorized by the laws of...  the United States."  15 U. S. C.
§ 7.  In holding that the  United States is not a person authorized  to
bring a treble-damages claim for its own alleged antitrust injury under
the Sherman Act, United States v. Cooper Corp., 312 U. S.6 00, 606-607,
this  Court observed  that, if the definition  of 'person"  included  the
United States, the Government would be exposed to liability as an anti-
trust defendant, a result Congress could not have intended, id., at 607,
609.  Although the antitrust statutes were later amended to allow the
United States to bring antitrust suits, see 15 U. S. C. § 15a, Congress did
not thereby change the statutory definition  of "person."  So, Cooper's

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Syllabus
conclusion that the United States is not an antitrust "person," in partic-
ular not a person who can be an antitrust defendant, was unaltered by
Congress' action; indeed, the means Congress used to amend the anti-
trust law implicitly ratified  Cooper's conclusion that the United States
is not a proper antitrust defendant.  Pp. 739-746.
(b)  For purposes of the antitrust laws, the  Postal Service  is not a
separate  person from the  United  States.  The PRA's  designation  of
the Postal Service as an "independent  establishment of the executive
branch of the Government of the United States," 39 U. S. C. § 201, is not
consistent with the idea that the Postal  Service  is an entity existing
outside  the Government.  Indeed,  the  designation indicates  just the
contrary.  The PRA gives the Postal Service a high degree of independ-
ence from other Government offices, but it remains part of the Govern-
ment.  The Sherman Act defines "person" to include corporations,  15
U. S. C. § 7, and had Congress chosen to create the Postal Service as a
federal corporation, the Court would have to ask whether the Sherman
Act's definition extends to the federal entity under this part of the defi-
nitional text.  Congress, however, declined to create the Postal Service
as a Government corporation, opting instead for an independent estab-
lishment.  The choice of words likely was more informed than unconsid-
ered, because Congress debated proposals to make  the Postal Service
a Government  corporation  before it enacted the PRA.  Although the
PRA refers explicitly to various federal statutes and specifies that the
Postal Service is exempt from some and subject to others, 39 U. S. C.
§§ 409-410, it makes no mention of the Sherman Act or the antitrust
laws.  This silence leads to no helpful inference one way or the other
on the question at issue.  However, the other considerations the Court
has discussed lead to the conclusion that, absent an express congres-
sional statement that the Postal Service can be sued for antitrust viola-
tions despite its status as an independent establishment of the Govern-
ment, the PRA does not subject the Postal Service to antitrust liability.
This conclusion is consistent with the nationwide, public responsibilities
of the Postal Service, which has different goals from private corpora-
tions, the most important being that it does not seek profits, § 3621.  It
also has broader obligations, including the provision of universal mail
delivery and free mail delivery to certain classes of persons,  §§3201-
3405, and, most recently, increased public responsibilities related to na-
tional  security.  Finally, the Postal  Service  has  many  powers  more
characteristic  of Government than of private enterprise, including its
state-conferred monopoly on mail delivery, § 601 et seq., and the powers
of eminent  domain and  to conclude  international  postal  agreements,
§§401, 407.  On  the other hand, but in ways still relevant to the anti-
trust  laws'  nonapplicability,  the  Postal  Service's  powers  are  more

NEW PAGE

738  POSTAL SERVICE v. FLAMINGO  INDUSTRIES  (USA)  LTD.
Opinion of the Court
limited than those of private businesses, since it lacks the power unilat-
erally to set prices or to close a post office, § 404.  Its public characteris-
tics and responsibilities indicate it should be treated under the antitrust
laws as part of the Government, not a market participant separate from
it.  The fact that the Postal Service operates some nonpostal lines of
business beyond  the scope of its mail monopoly and universal service
obligation does not alter this conclusion.  Pp. 746-748.
302 F. 3d 985, reversed.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.
Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued  the cause  for
petitioner.  With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
Olson, Assistant Attorney General Keisler, Lisa S. Blatt,
and Mark B. Stern.
Harold J  Krent argued the cause for respondents.  With
him on the brief were Angela Wah and George P. Eshoo.*
JUSTICE KENNEDY  delivered the opinion of the Court.
This  case  requires  us  to  consider  whether  the  United
States Postal Service is subject to liability under the federal
antitrust laws.
Flamingo  Industries  (USA)  Ltd.,  a private  corporation,
and its owner and principal officer are the respondents here.
Flamingo had been making mail sacks for the Postal Service,
but then its contract was terminated.  The respondents sued
in  United  States  District  Court  alleging  that  the  Postal
Service had sought to suppress competition and create a mo-
nopoly in mail sack production.  (They also brought  claims
against the  Postal  Service  under  federal  procurement  law
and state law, but those claims are not before us.)  The Dis-
*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Trucking Associations, Inc., by Drew S. Days III, Beth S. Brinkmann,
Seth M. Galanter,P  aul T Friedman, and Robert Digges, Jr.; for Postal-
Watch, Inc., by William S. Stancil;a nd for the Washington Legal Founda-
tion et al. by Alan Charles Raul, Daniel J Popeo, and Paul D. Kamenar.
Nicholas M. Fobe filed a brief for the Center for the Advancement  of
Capitalism as amicus curiae.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
trict Court  dismissed  the antitrust  claims,  concluding  that
the  Postal Service  is not subject  to liability  under federal
antitrust law.  The Court of Appeals reversed.  It held that
the Postal Service can be liable but that it has a limited im-
munity from antitrust liability for conduct undertaken at the
command  of Congress.  302 F. 3d 985, 993 (CA9 2002).  We
granted  certiorari  to  consider  the  question  whether  the
United  States  Postal  Service  is  a  "person"  amenable  to
suit under the controlling antitrust  statute.  538 U. S.  1056
(2003).  We hold it is not subject to antitrust liability, and
we reverse.
After the Revolution,  both the Articles  of Confederation
and the Constitution explicitly empowered the National Gov-
ernment to provide and regulate postal services.  Article of
Confederation IX; U. S. Const., Art. I, § 8.  The importance
of the  enterprise  was  prefigured  by  the Continental  Con-
gress' appointment of Benjamin Franklin to be the first Post-
master General, on July 26,  1775.  G. Cullinan, The United
States Postal Service 26 (1973)  (hereinafter  Cullinan).
From those beginnings, the Postal Service has become "the
nation's  oldest  and  largest  public  business."  J. Tierney,
Postal Reorganization:  Managing  the Public's  Business  vii
(1981)  (hereinafter Tierney).
During its history since  Postmaster Franklin,  the postal
organization has been reorganized or restructured at various
times.  In the immediate period after ratification of the Con-
stitution, it was called the General Post Office and was sub-
ordinate to the Treasury Department.  Cullinan 35-36.  In
1825, its name changed from the General Post Office  to the
Post Office Department, an alteration accomplished by some-
what informal means when Postmaster Joseph McLean  sim-
ply changed  the  title  on  official  letterhead.  McLean  also
began  the practice  of reporting  directly  to  the  President
rather than to the Secretary of the Treasury.  Id., at 50-51.
(McLean  was  a popular  Postmaster  who served  from  1823
until  1829,  when  the  incoming  President  Andrew Jackson

NEW PAGE

740  POSTAL SERVICE v. FLAMINGO  INDUSTRIES  (USA)  LTD.
Opinion of the Court
solved his worries about McLean's independence  in matters
of  postal  governance,  especially  patronage,  by  appointing
him to this Court.  Id., at 52.)  In  1829, President Jackson
acknowledged  the enhanced  status of the Postmaster  Gen-
eral by making him a member of the Cabinet, though it was
not until  1872 that  Congress  formally  recognized  the  Post
Office  Department as an executive  department  of the Fed-
eral Government.  Id., at 36.  A more complete  account of
the origins and mission of the postal system is set forth in
Postal Service v.  Council of Greenburgh Civic Assns., 453
U. S. 114,  120-126 (1981).
Major change came with the Postal Reorganization  Act of
1970  (PRA), 39 U. S. C. § 101  et seq.  It was  adopted to in-
crease  the efficiency  of the Postal  Service  and  reduce  po-
litical influences  on its operations.  Tierney  1-26;  Cullinan
5-10.  The  PRA  renames  the  Post Office  Department  the
United States Postal Service and removes it from the Cabi-
net to make it "an independent establishment of the execu-
tive branch  of the Government  of the  United  States."  39
U. S. C. § 201.  Superintendence over the new Postal Service
is the responsibility  of a Board  of Governors, consisting  of
11  members.  § 202.  Nine governors are  appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Senate and are
removable only for cause.  Ibid.  The other two governors
are the  Postmaster General,  who  also  serves  as  the  chief
executive officer of the Postal Service, and who is appointed
by the other nine, and the Deputy Postmaster General, who
is appointed by the other nine together with the Postmaster
General.  Ibid.
The PRA creates a second independent establishment, the
Postal  Rate  Commission,  to  make  recommendations  on
postal rate changes.  § 3601.  The  Commission  advises the
Board of Governors on rates for all postal services, including
both letter carriage and parcel delivery.  § 3621.  Rates are
set by the Board  of Governors  based  on the  recommenda-
tions of the Commission, and those decisions are in certain

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
circumstances  subject to judicial review.  §§ 3625, 3628.  In
making  rate  recommendations  the  Commission  must  con-
sider  factors  including making  each  class  of mail  bear  the
costs attributable to it, and the effect of rate increases on the
mail-using public and on  competitors in the parcel  delivery
business.  § 3622(b).
Under the PRA, the Postal Service retains  its monopoly
over  the  carriage  of  letters,  and  the  power  to  authorize
postal inspectors to search for, seize, and forfeit mail matter
transported  in  violation  of the  monopoly.  See  §§601-606.
It  also retains the obligation  to provide  universal service to
all  parts of the  country.  §§ 101,  403.  The  Postal  Service
has the power of eminent domain, the power to make postal
regulations,  and  the  power  to  enter  international  postal
agreements  subject  to  the  supervision  of the  Secretary  of
State.  §§401,  407.  It has, in addition, powers to contract,
to  acquire  property,  and  to settle  claims.  §401.  As  this
brief summary  indicates, the Postal Service  has  significant
governmental  powers,  consistent  with its status  as  an  in-
dependent  establishment  of the  Executive Branch.  It  was
exempted  from  many,  though  not  all,  statutes  governing
federal agencies,  and specifically  subjected to some  others.
§§ 409-410.  With respect to antitrust liability, however, the
PRA neither exempts the Postal Service nor  subjects it to
liability by express mention.  It is silent on the point.
The PRA waives the immunity of the Postal Service from
suit by giving it the power "to sue and be sued in its official
name."  §401.  The  first  question  we  address  is  whether
that waiver suffices  by its own terms to subject the Postal
Service to liability under the Sherman  Act, ch. 647, 26 Stat.
209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1 et seq.  We begin with a dis-
cussion of our precedents bearing on the inquiry.
This  Court has held that when  Congress passes enabling
legislation  allowing  an agency  or other  entity  of the Fed-
eral  Government  to be  sued  the  waiver  should be given  a
liberal-that  is  to  say,  expansive-construction.  Federal

NEW PAGE

742  POSTAL  SERVICE  v. FLAMINGO  INDUSTRIES  (USA) LTD.
Opinion of the Court
Housing Administration v. Burr, 309 U. S. 242 (1940).  In
support of its holding in Burr the Court, in a passage  often
cited in later cases involving the waiver of sovereign immu-
nity, wrote as follows:
"[I]t  must  be  presumed  that when  Congress  launched
a governmental  agency  into the commercial  world  and
endowed  it  with  authority  to  'sue  or  be  sued,'  that
agency  is not less  amenable  to judicial process  than  a
private enterprise under like circumstances  would be."
Id., at 245.
This general proposition was cited in the first two cases in
which the Court considered the extent of the waiver effected
by  the sue-and-be-sued  clause  of the  PRA.  In  Franchise
Tax Bd. of Cal. v. Postal Service, 467  U. S. 512 (1984),  the
underlying  dispute  concerned  the  obligation  of the  Postal
Service to withhold unpaid state taxes from the wages of its
employees.  A unanimous Court held that the Postal Service
was required to respond to an order to withhold the amounts,
even though the process was a state administrative tax levy,
not an order issued by a state court.  Id., at 525.  The sue-
and-be-sued clause, the Court held, must be given broad ef-
fect, and the Postal Service was  required to respond to the
administrative order even though it had not been issued by
a judicial body.  Id., at 519-521.
The  second case in which  the Court considered  the scope
of the waiver  effected  by the PRA's sue-and-be-sued  clause
was Loeffler v. Frank, 486 U. S. 549 (1988).  After the Postal
Service had been found liable for damages from employment
discrimination  in an  action  brought under Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, the question arose whether it was
subject as well to prejudgment  interest.  Id., at 551.  The
Court allowed the interest, and in the course of its decision
asserted, or repeated,  formulations which  indicate that the
sue-and-be-sued  clause  effects a broad  waiver of immunity.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
Id., at 554-555.  The Court also relied, however, upon the
provisions of Title VII itself which, by specific amendment,
extended the coverage under the Civil Rights Act to federal
employees.  Id., at 558-561.
After  Loeffler,  this  Court  decided  FDIC v.  Meyer, 510
U. S. 471,  484  (1994).  In Meyer, the question was  whether
the  Federal Savings  and  Loan Insurance  Corporation
(FSLIC), an agency of the United States, could be held liable
in a so-called "Bivens action."  See Bivens v. Six Unknown
Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S. 388 (1971).  A federal stat-
ute provided  for  a  waiver  of sovereign  immunity  in  suits
against  the FSLIC,  but  the  Court  explained  that  the  in-
terpretation of the waiver  statute was just the initial part
of  a  two-part  inquiry.  Even  though  sovereign  immunity
had been  waived, there was  the further, separate  question
whether the agency was  subject to the substantive  liability
recognized  in Bivens.  Meyer, supra, at 483.  The Loeffler
Court had not set forth the two-step analysis in the explicit
terms  Meyer used, but it did, as we have  said, consult the
statute as the source  of the liability upon which the obliga-
tion to pay prejudgment interest depended.
The two-step analysis in Meyer applies here.  We ask first
whether there is a waiver of sovereign immunity for actions
against the Postal Service.  If there is, we ask the second
question,  which  is whether the  substantive  prohibitions  of
the Sherman Act apply  to an independent establishment  of
the Executive Branch of the United States.
When the Court of Appeals considered the instant case, it
cited Meyer and seemed at the outset to follow Meyer's two-
step analysis.  In our view, however, the ensuing discussion
in the Court of Appeals' opinion was not consistent with the
Meyer framework; for, having found that the Postal Service's
immunity  from  suit  is  waived  to the  extent  provided  by
the statutory sue-and-be-sued  clause,  the Court of Appeals
relied  on  the  same  waiver  to  conclude  that  the  Sherman

NEW PAGE

744  POSTAL  SERVICE  v.  FLAMINGO INDUSTRIES  (USA) LTD.
Opinion of the Court
Act  applies  to the Postal  Service.  This  conflated  the two
steps and  resulted in an erroneous  conclusion.  See  Meyer,
supra, at 484.
As  to  the  first  step,  as  an  "independent  establishment
of the  executive  branch  of the Government  of the  United
States,"  39 U. S. C. § 201.,  the Postal  Service is part of the
Government and that status indicates immunity unless there
is  a waiver.  The  sue-and-be-sued  clause  waives immunity,
and makes the Postal Service amenable  to suit, as well as to
the incidents of judicial process.  § 401.  See Meyer, supra,
at 482;  Loeffler, supra, at  565;  Franchise Tax  Bd.,  supra,
at 525.  While Congress waived the immunity of the Postal
Service, Congress did not strip it of its governmental status.
The distinction is important.  An absence of immunity does
not result  in  liability if the  substantive  law  in question  is
not intended to reach the federal entity.  So we proceed to
Meyer's second step to determine if the substantive antitrust
liability defined by the statute extends to the Postal Service.
Under Meyer's second step, we must look to the statute.
Some years before Meyer was decided,  the Court of Ap-
peals for the District of Columbia Circuit recognized the two
distinct inquiries required when the question is whether the
Government,  or an entity it owns, is named as a defendant
in a suit under the  antitrust laws.  Sea-Land Serv., Inc. v.
Alaska R. Co.,  659  F. 2d 243,  245  (1981)  (R.  Ginsburg, J.).
That is the correct approach.  Upon examining the Sherman
Act, our decisions interpreting it, and the statutes that cre-
ate  and  organize  the Postal  Service,  we  conclude  that the
Postal Service is not subject to antitrust liability.
The  Sherman  Act imposes  liability  on any  "person."  It
defines  the word.  It provides  that  "'person'  . . . shall be
deemed  to  include  corporations  and  associations  existing
under or authorized by the laws of either the United States
[or of States or foreign governments]."  15 U. S. C. § 7.  It
follows then, that corporate or governmental status in most
instances is not a bar to the imposition  of liability on an en-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
tity as a "person" under the Act.  The federal prohibition,
for instance, binds state governmental bodies.  See Georgia
v. Evans, 316 U. S. 159 (1942); see also Pfizer Inc. v. Govern-
ment of India, 434 U. S. 308 (1978).
It is otherwise, however, when liability is pursued against
the Federal Government.  The Court made this proposition
clear  in  United States v. Cooper Corp., 312  U. S.  600,  614
(1941).  The  question  in  Cooper was  whether,  under  the
Sherman  Act,  the  United  States  was  a  person  who  could
bring a  treble-damages  claim  for its  own alleged  antitrust
injury.  The Court held the United  States could not sue for
antitrust damages because it is not a person under the anti-
trust statute.  Id.,  at 606-607.  Important to  the  present
case  is  an  explicit  reason  given by  the  Cooper Court  for
reaching its decision.  The Court observed  that if the defi-
nition of "person" included the United States, then the Gov-
ernment would be exposed to liability as an antitrust defend-
ant,  a  result  Congress  could  not  have  intended.  Id.,  at
607, 609.
After Cooper, Congress amended the antitrust statutes to
allow  the United  States  to bring antitrust  suits.  For our
purposes, the means by which it did so is instructive.  Con-
gress did not change the definition of "person" in the statute,
but added a new section allowing the United States to sue.
See  15  U.S. C.  § 15a.  So,  Cooper's conclusion  that  the
United States is not an antitrust "person," in particular not
a person who can be an antitrust defendant,  was unaltered
by  Congress'  action;  indeed,  the means  Congress  used to
amend the antitrust law implicitly ratified  Cooper's conclu-
sion that the United States is not a proper antitrust defend-
ant.  See  312  U. S.,  at  609;  Sea-Land, supra, at  245  ("Al-
though  Congress  was  well  aware  of the  view  the  Court
indicated  in Cooper Corp., that Congress had  not described
the  United  States as a  'person'  for Sherman Act  purposes,
Congress addressed only the direct holding in that case-the
ruling that the United States was not authorized to proceed

NEW PAGE

746  POSTAL  SERVICE v. FLAMINGO  INDUSTRIES  (USA) LTD.
Opinion of the Court
as a Sherman  Act treble damage  action  plaintiff" (footnote
omitted)).
The remaining question, then, is whether for purposes of
the antitrust  laws the  Postal  Service is a  person  separate
from the United States itself.  It is not.  The statutory des-
ignation of the Postal Service as an "independent establish-
ment  of  the  executive  branch  of  the  Government  of  the
United States" is not consistent  with the idea that it is an
entity existing outside the Government.  The  statutory in-
struction that the Postal Service is an establishment "of the
executive  branch  of the Government  of the United States"
indicates just the contrary.  The PRA gives the Postal Serv-
ice a high  degree of independence  from other offices  of the
Government, but it remains  part of the Government.  The
Sherman  Act defines  "person" to  include  corporations,  and
had the Congress  chosen to create the Postal Service as a
federal corporation, we would have to ask whether the Sher-
man Act's definition extends to the federal entity under this
part of the definitional text.  Congress, however, declined to
create the Postal Service as a Government corporation, opt-
ing instead for an independent establishment.  The choice of
words likely was more informed than unconsidered, because
Congress  debated  proposals  to make  the Postal Service  a
Government  corporation  before  it enacted  the PRA.  See
H. R. Rep. No. 91-1104, p. 6 (1970).
As we  have  noted,  the  PRA refers  in explicit  terms  to
various federal statutes and specifies that the Postal Service
is  exempt  from  some  and  subject  to  others.  39  U. S. C.
§§ 409-410.  It makes no mention of the Sherman Act or the
antitrust laws, however.  The silence leads to no helpful in-
ference one way or the other on the issue before us; but the
other considerations we have  discussed  lead us to  say that
absent an express statement from Congress  that the Postal
Service can be sued for antitrust violations despite its status
as an independent establishment of the Government  of the

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 736 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
United States, the PRA does not subject the Postal Service
to antitrust liability.
Our  conclusion  is  consistent with  the nationwide,  public
responsibilities  of the  Postal  Service.  The  Postal Service
has different goals, obligations, and powers from private cor-
porations.  Its  goals  are  not  those  of private  enterprise.
The most important difference is that it does not seek profits,
but only to break even, 39 U. S. C. § 3621, which is consistent
with  its public  character.  It also has  broader  obligations,
including the provision  of universal mail  delivery, the pro-
vision  of free  mail  delivery  to  certain  classes  of persons,
§§3201-3405,  and,  most  recently, increased  public  respon-
sibilities  related  to  national  security.  Finally, the  Postal
Service has many powers more characteristic of Government
than of private enterprise, including its state-conferred  mo-
nopoly on mail  delivery, the power of eminent domain,  and
the power to conclude international postal agreements.
On  the other hand, but in ways still relevant to the non-
applicability  of  the  antitrust  laws  to  the  Postal  Service,
its  powers  are  more  limited  than  those  of  private  busi-
nesses.  It lacks the prototypical means of engaging in anti-
competitive behavior:  the power to set prices.  This is true
both as a matter of mechanics, because pricing decisions are
made  with  the  participation  of the  separate  Postal  Rate
Commission, and as a matter of substance, because price de-
cisions  are  governed  by principles  other than profitability.
See supra, at 740-741.  Similarly, before  it can close a post
office,  it  must provide  written reasons,  and  its  decision  is
subject  to  reversal  by  the  Commission  for  arbitrariness,
abuse  of discretion,  failure to follow  procedures,  or lack  of
evidence.  § 404.  The Postal Service's public characteristics
and responsibilities  indicate  it should be treated  under the
antitrust  laws  as  part  of the  Government  of the  United
States, not a market participant separate from it.
The  Postal Service  does  operate  nonpostal lines  of busi-
ness, for which  it is free  to  set prices  independent  of the

NEW PAGE

748  POSTAL  SERVICE v. FLAMINGO INDUSTRIES (USA)  LTD.
Opinion of the Court
Commission, and in which it may seek profits to offset losses
in the postal business.  § 403(a).  The great majority of the
organization's  business, however, consists of postal services.
See Revenue, Pieces, and Weight by Classes of Mail and Spe-
cial  Services  for  Government  Fiscal  Year  2003,  available
at http://www.usps.com/financials/_pdf/GFY03.pdf  (as visited
Jan.  23,  2004,  and  available  in Clerk  of Court's  case  file).
Further, the  Postal  Service's  predecessor,  the  Post Office
Department, had nonpostal lines of business, such as money
orders  and  postal  savings  accounts.  Cullinan  84-85,  107.
As a Cabinet agency, the old Post Office Department was not
subject to the antitrust laws.  The new Postal Service's lines
of business beyond the scope of its mail monopoly and univer-
sal  service  obligation  do not  show it is  separate  from  the
Government under the antitrust laws.
The  Postal  Service,  in  both form  and  function,  is  not a
separate antitrust person from the United States.  It is part
of the  Government of the United  States and  so is not con-
trolled by the antitrust laws.  The judgment of the Court of
Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.

NEW PAGE