555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
438  OCTOBER TERM, 2008 
Syllabus 
PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO., dba AT&T
 
CALIFORNIA, et al. v. LINKLINE COM-

MUNICATIONS, INC., et al.
 
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the ninth circuit 
No. 07–512.  Argued December 8, 2008—Decided February 25, 2009 
Petitioners (hereinafter AT&T) own infrastructure and facilities needed 
to provide “DSL” service, a method of connecting to the Internet at 
high speeds over telephone lines.  As a condition for a recent merger, 
the Federal Communications Commission requires AT&T to provide 
wholesale DSL transport service to independent ﬁrms at a price no 
greater than the retail price of AT&T’s DSL service.  The plaintiffs in 
this case, respondents here, are independent Internet service providers 
that compete with AT&T in the retail DSL market in California.  The 
plaintiffs do not own all the facilities needed to supply DSL service, and 
must lease wholesale DSL transport service from AT&T.  They ﬁled 
suit under § 2 of the Sherman Act, asserting that AT&T unlawfully 
“squeezed” their proﬁt margins by setting a high price for the wholesale 
DSL transport service it sells and a low price for its own retail DSL 
service.  This maneuver allegedly placed the plaintiffs at a competitive 
disadvantage, allowing AT&T to maintain monopoly power in the DSL 
market.  AT&T moved for judgment on the pleadings, arguing that the 
plaintiffs’ claims were foreclosed by Verizon Communications Inc. v. 
Law Ofﬁces of Curtis V. Trinko, LLP, 540 U. S. 398, 410, in which this 
Court held that a ﬁrm with no antitrust duty to deal with its rivals has 
no obligation to provide those rivals with a “sufﬁcient” level of service. 
The District Court found that AT&T had no antitrust duty to deal with 
the plaintiffs, but nonetheless denied the motion, holding that Trinko 
did not address price-squeeze claims.  The court certiﬁed its order for 
interlocutory appeal on the question whether Trinko bars price-squeeze 
claims when the parties are required to deal by federal communications 
law, but not antitrust law.  The Ninth Circuit afﬁrmed, holding that 
Trinko did not address the viability of price-squeeze claims, and thus 
the plaintiffs’ complaint stated a potentially valid § 2 claim. 
Held: 
1. The case is not moot.  The plaintiffs now agree that their claims 
must meet the Brooke Group test for predatory pricing, apparently 
apart from their price-squeeze theory.  That test established two re­
quirements for predatory pricing: below-cost retail pricing and a “ ‘dan­

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  439 
Syllabus 
gerous probability’ ” that the defendant will recoup any lost proﬁts, see 
Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 
209, 222–224.  Despite the plaintiffs’ new position, the parties continue 
to seek different relief: AT&T seeks reversal of the decision below and 
dismissal of the complaint, while the plaintiffs seek leave to amend their 
complaint to allege a Brooke Group claim.  It is also not clear that the 
plaintiffs  have  unequivocally  abandoned  their  price-squeeze  claims. 
Prudential concerns favor answering the question presented; absent a 
decision on the merits, the Circuit conﬂict that this Court granted cer­
tiorari to resolve would persist.  Pp. 446–447. 
2. A price-squeeze claim may not be brought under § 2 when the de­
fendant has no antitrust duty to deal with the plaintiff at wholesale. 
Pp. 447–457. 
(a) Businesses are generally free to choose the parties with whom 
they will deal, as well as the prices, terms, and conditions of that deal­
ing.  See United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307.  But in 
rare circumstances, a dominant ﬁrm may incur antitrust liability for 
purely unilateral conduct, such as charging “predatory” prices.  Brooke 
Group, supra, at 222–224.  There are also limited circumstances in 
which a ﬁrm’s unilateral refusal to deal with its rivals can give rise to 
antitrust liability.  See Aspen Skiing Co. v. Aspen Highlands Skiing 
Corp., 472 U. S. 585, 608–611.  Here, plaintiffs do not allege predatory 
pricing, and the District Court concluded that there was no antitrust 
duty to deal.  Plaintiffs challenge a different type of unilateral conduct 
in which a ﬁrm “squeezes” its competitors’ proﬁt margins.  This re­
quires the defendant to operate in both the wholesale (“upstream”) and 
retail (“downstream”) markets.  By raising the wholesale price of in­
puts while cutting its own retail prices, the defendant can raise competi­
tors’ costs while putting downward pressure on their revenues.  Price­
squeeze plaintiffs assert that defendants must leave them a “fair” or 
“adequate” margin between wholesale and retail prices.  Pp. 447–449. 
(b) Where there is no duty to deal at the wholesale level and no 
predatory pricing at the retail level, a ﬁrm is not required to price both 
of these services in a manner that preserves its rivals’ proﬁt margins. 
Pp. 449–452. 
(i) Any challenge to AT&T’s wholesale prices is foreclosed by a 
straightforward application of Trinko.  The claim in Trinko addressed 
the quality of Verizon’s support services, while the claims in this case 
challenge AT&T’s pricing structure.  But for antitrust purposes, there 
is no meaningful distinction between price and nonprice components of 
a transaction.  The nub of the complaint in both cases is identical—the 
plaintiffs alleged that the defendants (upstream monopolists) abused 
their power in the wholesale market to prevent rival ﬁrms from compet­

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
440  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Syllabus
 
ing effectively in the retail market.  But a ﬁrm with no antitrust duty 
to deal in the wholesale market has no obligation to deal under terms 
and conditions favorable to its competitors.  See Trinko, supra, at 410. 
Had AT&T simply stopped providing DSL transport service to the 
plaintiffs, it would not have run afoul of the Sherman Act.  Thus, it was 
not required to offer this service at the wholesale prices the plaintiffs 
would have preferred.  Pp. 449–451. 
(ii) The other component of a price-squeeze claim is the assertion 
that the defendant’s retail prices are “too low.”  Here too plaintiffs’ 
claims ﬁnd no support in existing antitrust doctrine.  “[C]utting prices 
in order to increase business often is the very essence of competition.” 
Matsushita Elec. Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S. 574, 
594.  To avoid chilling aggressive price competition, the Court has care­
fully limited the circumstances under which plaintiffs can state a Sher­
man Act claim by alleging that the defendant’s prices are too low.  See 
Brooke Group, supra, at 222–224.  The complaint at issue here has no 
allegation that AT&T’s conduct met either Brooke Group requirement. 
Recognizing a price-squeeze claim where the defendant’s retail price 
remains above cost would invite the precise harm the Court sought to 
avoid in Brooke Group: Firms might raise retail prices or refrain from 
aggressive price competition to avoid potential antitrust liability.  See 
509 U. S., at 223.  Pp. 451–452. 
(c) Institutional  concerns  also  counsel  against  recognizing  such 
claims.  This Court has repeatedly emphasized the importance of clear 
rules in antitrust law.  Recognizing price-squeeze claims would require 
courts simultaneously to police both the wholesale and retail prices to 
ensure that rival ﬁrms are not being squeezed.  Courts would be aiming 
at a moving target, since it is the interaction between these two prices 
that may result in a squeeze.  Moreover, ﬁrms seeking to avoid price­
squeeze liability will have no safe harbor for their pricing practices. 
The most commonly articulated standard for price squeezes is that the 
defendant must leave its rivals a “fair” or “adequate” margin between 
wholesale and retail prices; this test is nearly impossible for courts to 
apply without conducting complex proceedings like rate-setting agen­
cies.  Some amici argue that a price squeeze should be presumed if the 
defendant’s wholesale price exceeds its retail price.  But if both the 
wholesale price and the retail price are independently lawful, there 
is no basis for imposing antitrust liability simply because a vertically 
integrated ﬁrm’s wholesale price is greater than or equal to its retail 
price.  Pp. 452–455. 
(d) The  District  Court  on  remand  should  consider  whether  an 
amended complaint ﬁled by the plaintiffs states a claim upon which relief 
may be granted under the pleading standard articulated in Bell Atlantic 
Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U. S. 544, 561–563; whether plaintiffs should be 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  441 
Syllabus 
given leave to amend their complaint to bring a Brooke Group claim; 
and such other matters properly before it.  Pp. 455–457. 
503 F. 3d 876, reversed and remanded. 
Roberts, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Scalia, 
Kennedy, Thomas, and Alito, JJ., joined.  Breyer, J., ﬁled an opinion 
concurring in the judgment, in which Stevens, Souter, and Ginsburg, 
JJ., joined, post, p. 457. 
Aaron M. Panner argued the cause for petitioners.  With 
him on the briefs was Michael K. Kellogg. 
Deanne  E.  Maynard  argued  the  cause  for  the  United 
States as amicus curiae urging vacatur.  With her on the 
brief were former Solicitor General Garre, Assistant Attor­
ney General Barnett, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, 
Deputy Assistant Attorney General O’Connell, Catherine G. 
O’Sullivan, and David Seidman. 
Maxwell M. Blecher argued the cause and ﬁled a brief 
for respondents. 
Richard M. Brunell argued the cause and ﬁled a brief as 
amicus curiae for the American Antitrust Institute.  With 
him on the brief was Albert A. Foer.* 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the Common­
wealth of Virginia et al. by Robert F. McDonnell, Attorney General of 
Virginia, Stephen R. McCullough, State Solicitor General, William C. 
Mims, Chief Deputy Attorney General, Sarah Oxenham Allen, Assistant 
Attorney General, and William E. Thro, and by the Attorneys General for 
their respective States as follows: Troy King of Alabama, John W. Suthers 
of  Colorado,  Bill  McCollum  of  Florida,  Steve  Six  of  Kansas,  Jon  C. 
Bruning of Nebraska, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Mark L. 
Shurtleff of Utah, and Robert M. McKenna of Washington; for Abbott 
Laboratories by Gene C. Schaerr, Steffen N. Johnson, Charles B. Klein, 
James F. Hurst, and Linda T. Coberly; for Verizon Communications Inc. 
et al. by John Thorne, Richard G. Taranto, Jan S. Amundson, and Quen­
tin Riegel; and for the Washington Legal Foundation by Mark J. Botti, 
Daniel J. Popeo, and Richard A. Samp. 
Briefs of amici curiae were ﬁled for COMPTEL by Samuel L. Feder, 
Elaine J. Goldenberg, and Mary C. Albert; and for Professors and Scholars 
in Law and Economics by J. Gregory Sidak and Robert H. Bork, both 
pro se. 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
442  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
Chief  Justice  Roberts  delivered  the  opinion  of  the 
Court. 
The plaintiffs in this case, respondents here, allege that a 
competitor subjected them to a “price squeeze” in violation 
of § 2 of the Sherman Act.  They assert that such a claim 
can arise when a vertically integrated ﬁrm sells inputs at 
wholesale and also sells ﬁnished goods or services at retail. 
If that ﬁrm has power in the wholesale market, it can simul­
taneously raise the wholesale price of inputs and cut the re­
tail price of the ﬁnished good.  This will have the effect of 
“squeezing” the proﬁt margins of any competitors in the re­
tail market.  Those ﬁrms will have to pay more for the in­
puts they need; at the same time, they will have to cut their 
retail prices to match the other ﬁrm’s prices.  The question 
before  us  is  whether  such  a  price-squeeze  claim  may  be 
brought under § 2 of the Sherman Act when the defendant is 
under no antitrust obligation to sell the inputs to the plaintiff 
in  the  ﬁrst  place.  We  hold  that  no  such  claim  may  be 
brought. 
I 
This case involves the market for digital subscriber line 
(DSL) service, which is a method of connecting to the In­
ternet at high speeds over telephone lines.  AT&T 1  owns 
much of the infrastructure and facilities needed to provide 
DSL  service  in  California.  In  particular,  AT&T  controls 
most of what is known as the “last mile”—the lines that con­
nect homes and businesses to the telephone network.  Com­
peting  DSL  providers  must  generally  obtain  access  to 
AT&T’s facilities in order to serve their customers. 
Until recently, the Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) required incumbent phone companies such as AT&T 
1 Petitioners consist of several corporate entities and subsidiaries, and 
their names and corporate structures have changed frequently over the 
course of this litigation.  For simplicity, we will refer to all the petitioners 
as “AT&T.” 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  443 
Opinion of the Court 
to sell transmission service to independent DSL providers, 
under  the  theory  that  this  would  spur  competition.  See 
In re Appropriate Framework for Broadband Access to In­
ternet Over Wireline Facilities, 20 FCC Rcd. 14853, 14868 
(2005).  In  2005,  the  FCC  largely  abandoned  this  forced­
sharing requirement in light of the emergence of a competi­
tive market beyond DSL for high-speed Internet service; 
DSL now faces robust competition from cable companies and 
wireless and satellite services.  Id., at 14879–14887.  As a 
condition  for  a  recent  merger,  however,  AT&T  remains 
bound by the mandatory interconnection requirements, and 
is obligated to provide wholesale “DSL transport” service to 
independent ﬁrms at a price no greater than the retail price 
of AT&T’s DSL service.  In re AT&T Inc., 22 FCC Rcd. 
5662, 5814 (2007). 
The plaintiffs are four independent Internet service pro­
viders (ISPs) that compete with AT&T in the retail DSL 
market.  Plaintiffs do not own all the facilities needed to 
supply  their  customers  with  this  service.  They  instead 
lease  DSL  transport  service  from  AT&T  pursuant  to  the 
merger conditions described above.  AT&T thus participates 
in the DSL market at both the wholesale and retail levels; it 
provides plaintiffs and other independent ISPs with whole­
sale DSL transport service, and it also sells DSL service 
directly to consumers at retail. 
In July 2003, the plaintiffs brought suit in District Court, 
alleging  that  AT&T  violated  § 2  of  the  Sherman  Act,  15 
U. S. C. § 2, by monopolizing the DSL market in California. 
The complaint alleges that AT&T refused to deal with the 
plaintiffs, denied the plaintiffs access to essential facilities, 
and engaged in a “price squeeze.”  App. 18–19.  Speciﬁcally, 
plaintiffs contend that AT&T squeezed their proﬁt margins 
by setting a high wholesale price for DSL transport and a 
low retail price for DSL Internet service.  This maneuver 
allegedly “exclude[d] and unreasonably impede[d] competi­

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
444  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
tion,” thus allowing AT&T to “preserve and maintain its mo­
nopoly control of DSL access to the Internet.”  Ibid. 
In Verizon Communications Inc. v. Law Ofﬁces of Curtis 
V. Trinko, LLP, 540 U. S. 398, 410 (2004), we held that a 
ﬁrm with no antitrust duty to deal with its rivals at all is 
under no obligation to provide those rivals with a “sufﬁcient” 
level  of  service.  Shortly  after  we  issued  that  decision, 
AT&T moved for judgment on the pleadings, arguing that 
the plaintiffs’ claims in this case were foreclosed by Trinko. 
The District Court held that AT&T had no antitrust duty to 
deal with the plaintiffs, App. to Pet. for Cert. 77a–85a, but 
it denied the motion to dismiss with respect to the price­
squeeze  claims,  id.,  at  86a–90a.  The  court  acknowledged 
that AT&T’s argument “has a certain logic to it,” but held 
that Trinko “simply does not involve price-squeeze claims.” 
App. to Pet. for Cert. 86a.  The District Court also noted 
that price-squeeze claims have been recognized by several 
Circuits and “are cognizable under existing antitrust stand­
ards.”  Id., at 89a, and n. 27. 
At  the  District  Court’s  request,  plaintiffs  then  ﬁled  an 
amended  complaint  providing  greater  detail  about  their 
price-squeeze  claims.  AT&T  again  moved  to  dismiss,  ar­
guing that price-squeeze claims could only proceed if they 
met the two established requirements for predatory pricing: 
below-cost  retail  pricing  and  a  “ ‘dangerous  probability’ ” 
that the defendant will recoup any lost proﬁts.  See Brooke 
Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 
209, 222–224 (1993).  The District Court did not reach the 
issue whether all price-squeeze claims must meet the Brooke 
Group requirements, because it concluded that the amended 
complaint, “generously construed,” satisﬁed those criteria. 
App. to Pet. for Cert. 46a–49a, 56a.  The court also certiﬁed 
its  earlier  order  for  interlocutory  appeal  on  the  question 
whether “Trinko bars price squeeze claims where the par­
ties are compelled to deal under the federal communications 
laws.”  Id., at 56a–57a. 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  445 
Opinion of the Court 
On  interlocutory  appeal,  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the 
Ninth Circuit afﬁrmed the District Court’s denial of AT&T’s 
motion for judgment on the pleadings on the price-squeeze 
claims.  linkline Communications, Inc. v. SBC California, 
Inc.,  503  F.  3d  876  (2007).  The  court  emphasized  that 
“Trinko did not involve a price squeezing theory.”  Id., at 
883.  Because “a price squeeze theory formed part of the 
fabric of traditional antitrust law prior to Trinko,” the Court 
of Appeals concluded that “those claims should remain viable 
notwithstanding either the telecommunications statutes or 
Trinko.”  Ibid.  Based on the record before it, the court 
held that plaintiffs’ original complaint stated a potentially 
valid claim under § 2 of the Sherman Act. 
Judge Gould dissented, noting that “the notion of a ‘price 
squeeze’ is itself in a squeeze between two recent Supreme 
Court precedents.”  Id., at 886.  A price-squeeze claim in­
volves allegations of both a high wholesale price and a low 
retail price, so Judge Gould analyzed each component sepa­
rately.  He concluded that “Trinko insulates from antitrust 
review the setting of the upstream price.”  Id., at 886–887. 
With respect to the downstream price, he argued that “the 
retail side of a price squeeze cannot be considered to create 
an antitrust violation if the retail pricing does not satisfy the 
requirements of Brooke Group, which set unmistakable lim­
its on what can be considered to be predatory within the 
meaning of the antitrust laws.”  Id., at 887 (citing Brooke 
Group, supra, at 222–224).  Judge Gould concluded that the 
plaintiffs’ complaint did not satisfy these requirements be­
cause it contained no allegations that the retail price was set 
below cost and that those losses could later be recouped. 
503  F.  3d,  at  887.  Judge  Gould  would  have  allowed  the 
plaintiffs  to  amend their  complaint  if  they could,  in  good 
faith,  raise  predatory  pricing  claims  meeting  the  Brooke 
Group requirements.  503 F. 3d, at 887. 
We granted certiorari, 554 U. S. 916 (2008), to resolve a 
conﬂict  over  whether  a  plaintiff  can  bring  price-squeeze 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
446  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
claims under § 2 of the Sherman Act when the defendant has 
no antitrust duty to deal with the plaintiff.  See Covad Com­
munications Co. v. Bell Atlantic Corp., 398 F. 3d 666, 673– 
674 (CADC 2005) (holding  that Trinko bars such claims). 
We reverse. 
II 
This case has assumed an unusual posture.  The plaintiffs 
now assert that they agree with Judge Gould’s dissenting 
position  that  price-squeeze  claims  must  meet  the  Brooke 
Group requirements for predatory pricing.  They ask us to 
vacate the decision below in their favor and remand with 
instructions that they be given leave to amend their com­
plaint  to  allege  a  Brooke  Group  claim.  In  other  words, 
plaintiffs are no longer pleased with their initial theory of 
the case, and ask for a mulligan to try again under a different 
theory.  Some amici argue that the case is moot in light of 
this  confession  of  error.  They  contend  that  “[w]ith  both 
petitioners and respondents now aligned on [the same] side 
of the question presented, no party with a concrete stake in 
this case’s outcome is advocating for the contrary position.” 
Brief for COMPTEL 6. 
We do not think this case is moot.  First, the parties con­
tinue to seek different relief.  AT&T asks us to reverse the 
judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand with instruc­
tions to dismiss the complaint at issue.  The plaintiffs ask 
that we vacate the judgment and remand with instructions 
that they be given leave to amend their complaint.  The par­
ties thus continue to be adverse not only in the litigation as 
a whole, but in the speciﬁc proceedings before this Court. 
Second, it is not clear that the plaintiffs have unequivocally 
abandoned their price-squeeze claims.  In their brief and at 
oral argument, the plaintiffs continue to refer to their “pric­
ing squeeze claim.”  See Brief for Respondents 13.  They 
appear  to  acknowledge  that  those  claims  must  meet  the 
Brooke Group requirements, but it is not clear whether they 
believe the necessary showing can be made in at least partial 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  447 
Opinion of the Court 
reliance on the sort of price-squeeze theory accepted by the 
Court of Appeals.  At one point, for example, the plaintiffs 
suggest that “the DSL transport price” may be pertinent to 
their claims going forward under the theory of Judge Gould’s 
dissent; that opinion, however, concluded that Trinko “in es­
sence takes the issu[e] of wholesale pricing out of the case.” 
503 F. 3d, at 886.  Given this ambiguity, the case before us 
remains a live dispute appropriate for decision.  Cf. Friends 
of Earth, Inc. v.  Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), 
Inc., 528 U. S. 167, 189 (2000) (a party’s voluntary conduct 
renders a case moot only if it is “ ‘absolutely clear’ ” the party 
will take that course of action). 
Amici also argue that we should dismiss the writ of certio­
rari because of the “lack of adversarial presentation” by an 
interested party.  Brief for COMPTEL 7.  To the contrary, 
prudential concerns favor our answering the question pre­
sented.  Plaintiffs defended the Court of Appeals’ decision 
at the certiorari stage, and the parties have invested a sub­
stantial amount of time, effort, and resources in brieﬁng and 
arguing the merits of this case.  In the absence of a decision 
from this Court on the merits, the Court of Appeals’ decision 
would presumably remain binding precedent in the Ninth 
Circuit, and the Circuit conﬂict we granted certiorari to re­
solve would persist.  Two amici have submitted briefs de­
fending the Court of Appeals’ decision on the merits, and we 
granted the motion of one of those amici to participate in 
oral argument.  555 U. S. 1029 (2008).  We think it appro­
priate to proceed to address the question presented. 
III 
A 
Section 2 of the Sherman Act makes it unlawful to “monop­
olize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with 
any other person or persons, to monopolize any part of the 
trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign 
nations.”  Ch. 647, 26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. § 2.  Simply pos­

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
448  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
sessing monopoly power and charging monopoly prices does 
not violate §2; rather, the statute targets “the willful acqui­
sition or maintenance of that power as distinguished from 
growth or development as a consequence of a superior prod­
uct, business acumen, or historic accident.”  United States 
v. Grinnell Corp., 384 U. S. 563, 570–571 (1966). 
As a general rule, businesses are free to choose the parties 
with whom they will deal, as well as the prices, terms, and 
conditions of that dealing.  See United States v. Colgate & 
Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307 (1919).  But there are rare instances 
in which a dominant ﬁrm may incur antitrust liability for 
purely unilateral conduct.  For example, we have ruled that 
ﬁrms may not charge “predatory” prices—below-cost prices 
that drive rivals out of the market and allow the monopolist 
to raise its prices later and recoup its losses.  Brooke Group, 
509 U. S., at 222–224.  Here, however, the complaint at issue 
does  not  contain  allegations  meeting  those  requirements. 
App. 10–24. 
There are also limited circumstances in which a ﬁrm’s uni­
lateral refusal to deal with its rivals can give rise to antitrust 
liability.  See Aspen Skiing Co. v. Aspen Highlands Skiing 
Corp.,  472  U. S.  585,  608–611  (1985).  Here,  however,  the 
District Court held that AT&T had no such antitrust duty to 
deal with its competitors, App. to Pet. for Cert. 84a–85a, and 
this holding was not challenged on appeal.2 
2 The Court of Appeals assumed that any duty to deal arose only from 
FCC regulations, 503 F. 3d 876, 878–879, n. 6 (CA9 2007), and the question 
on which we granted certiorari made the same assumption.  Even aside 
from the District Court’s reasoning, App. to Pet. for Cert. 77a–85a, it 
seems quite unlikely that AT&T would have an antitrust duty to deal with 
the plaintiffs.  Such a duty requires a showing of monopoly power, but— 
as the FCC has recognized, In re Appropriate Framework for Broadband 
Access to Internet Over Wireline Facilities, 20 FCC Rcd. 14853, 14879– 
14887 (2005)—the market for high-speed Internet service is now quite 
competitive; DSL providers face stiff competition from cable companies 
and wireless and satellite providers. 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  449 
Opinion of the Court 
The challenge here focuses on retail prices—where there 
is no predatory pricing—and the terms of dealing—where 
there  is  no  duty  to  deal.  Plaintiffs’  price-squeeze  claims 
challenge a different type of unilateral conduct in which a 
ﬁrm “squeezes” the proﬁt margins of its competitors.  This 
requires the defendant to be operating in two markets, a 
wholesale (“upstream”) market and a retail (“downstream”) 
market.  A ﬁrm with market power in the upstream mar­
ket can squeeze its downstream competitors by raising the 
wholesale price of inputs while cutting its own retail prices. 
This will raise competitors’ costs (because they will have to 
pay more for their inputs) and lower their revenues (because 
they will have to match the dominant ﬁrm’s low retail price). 
Price-squeeze plaintiffs assert that defendants must leave 
them a “fair” or “adequate” margin between the wholesale 
price and the retail price.  In this case, we consider whether 
a plaintiff can state a price-squeeze claim when the defend­
ant has no obligation under the antitrust laws to deal with 
the plaintiff at wholesale. 
B 
1. A straightforward application of our recent decision in 
Trinko forecloses any challenge to AT&T’s wholesale prices. 
In Trinko, Verizon was required by statute to lease its net­
work elements to competing ﬁrms at wholesale rates.  540 
U. S., at 402–403.  The plaintiff—a customer of one of Veri­
zon’s rivals—asserted that Verizon denied its competitors ac­
cess to interconnection support services, making it difﬁcult 
for those competitors to ﬁll their customers’ orders.  Id., at 
404–405.  The complaint alleged that this conduct in the up­
stream market violated § 2 of the Sherman Act by impeding 
the ability of independent carriers to compete in the down­
stream market for local telephone service.  Ibid. 
We  held  that  the  plaintiff’s  claims  were  not  actionable 
under § 2.  Given that Verizon had no antitrust duty to deal 
with its rivals at all, we concluded that “Verizon’s alleged 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
450  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
insufﬁcient assistance in the provision of service to rivals” 
did not violate the Sherman Act.  Id., at 410.  Trinko thus 
makes clear that if a ﬁrm has no antitrust duty to deal with 
its competitors at wholesale, it certainly has no duty to deal 
under  terms  and  conditions  that  the  rivals  ﬁnd  commer­
cially advantageous. 
In this case, as in Trinko, the defendant has no antitrust 
duty to deal with its rivals at wholesale; any such duty arises 
only from FCC regulations, not from the Sherman Act.  See 
supra, at 448.  There is no meaningful distinction between 
the “insufﬁcient assistance” claims  we rejected in Trinko 
and the plaintiffs’ price-squeeze claims in the instant case. 
The Trinko plaintiff challenged the quality of Verizon’s inter­
connection service, while this case involves a challenge to 
AT&T’s pricing structure.  But for antitrust purposes, there 
is no reason to distinguish between price and nonprice com­
ponents of a transaction.  See, e. g., American Telephone & 
Telegraph Co. v. Central Ofﬁce Telephone, Inc., 524 U. S. 214, 
223 (1998) (“Any claim for excessive rates can be couched as 
a claim for inadequate services and vice versa”).  The nub 
of the complaint in both Trinko and this case is identical— 
the plaintiffs alleged that the defendants (upstream monopo­
lists) abused their power in the wholesale market to prevent 
rival ﬁrms from competing effectively in the retail market. 
Trinko holds that such claims are not cognizable under the 
Sherman Act in the absence of an antitrust duty to deal. 
The District Court and the Court of Appeals did not re­
gard Trinko as controlling because that case did not directly 
address price-squeeze claims.  503 F. 3d, at 883; App. to Pet. 
for Cert. 86a; see also Brief for COMPTEL as Amicus Cu­
riae 27–30.  This is technically true, but the reasoning of 
Trinko  applies  with  equal  force  to  price-squeeze  claims. 
AT&T could have squeezed its competitors’ proﬁts just as 
effectively by providing poor-quality interconnection service 
to the plaintiffs, as Verizon allegedly did in Trinko.  But a 
ﬁrm with no duty to deal in the wholesale market has no 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  451 
Opinion of the Court 
obligation to deal under terms and conditions favorable to its 
competitors.  If AT&T had simply stopped providing DSL 
transport service to the plaintiffs, it would not have run afoul 
of the Sherman Act.  Under these circumstances, AT&T was 
not required to offer this service at the wholesale prices the 
plaintiffs would have preferred. 
2. The other component of a price-squeeze claim is the as­
sertion  that  the  defendant’s  retail  prices  are  “too  low.” 
Here too plaintiffs’ claims ﬁnd no support in our existing an­
titrust doctrine. 
“[C]utting prices in order to increase business often is the 
very essence of competition.”  Matsushita Elec. Industrial 
Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S. 574, 594 (1986).  In cases 
seeking to impose antitrust liability for prices that are too 
low, mistaken inferences are “especially costly, because they 
chill the very conduct the antitrust laws are designed to pro­
tect.”  Ibid.; see also Brooke Group, 509 U. S., at 226; Car­
gill, Inc. v.  Monfort of Colo., Inc., 479 U. S. 104, 121–122, 
n. 17 (1986).  To avoid chilling aggressive price competition, 
we  have  carefully  limited  the  circumstances  under  which 
plaintiffs can state a Sherman Act claim by alleging that 
prices are too low.  Speciﬁcally, to prevail on a predatory 
pricing  claim,  a  plaintiff  must  demonstrate  that:  (1)  “the 
prices complained of are below an appropriate measure of its 
rival’s costs”; and (2) there is a “dangerous probability” that 
the  defendant  will  be  able  to  recoup  its  “investment”  in 
below-cost prices.  Brooke Group, supra, at 222–224.  “Low 
prices beneﬁt consumers regardless of how those prices are 
set, and so long as they are above predatory levels, they do 
not threaten competition.”  Atlantic Richﬁeld Co. v.  USA 
Petroleum Co., 495 U. S. 328, 340 (1990). 
In the complaint at issue in this interlocutory appeal, App. 
10–24, there is no allegation that AT&T’s conduct met either 
of the Brooke Group requirements.  Recognizing a price­
squeeze  claim  where  the  defendant’s  retail  price  remains 
above cost would invite the precise harm we sought to avoid 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
452  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
in Brooke Group: Firms might raise their retail prices or 
refrain from aggressive price competition to avoid potential 
antitrust liability.  See 509 U. S., at 223 (“As a general rule, 
the exclusionary effect of prices above a relevant measure of 
cost either reﬂects the lower cost structure of the alleged 
predator, and so represents competition on the merits, or is 
beyond the practical ability of a judicial tribunal to control 
without  courting  intolerable  risks  of  chilling  legitimate 
price cutting”). 
3. Plaintiffs’ price-squeeze claim, looking to the relation 
between retail and wholesale prices, is thus nothing more 
than an amalgamation of a meritless claim at the retail level 
and a meritless claim at the wholesale level.  If there is no 
duty to deal at the wholesale level and no predatory pricing 
at the retail level, then a ﬁrm is certainly not required to 
price both of these services in a manner that preserves its 
rivals’ proﬁt margins.3 
C 
1. Institutional concerns also counsel against recognition 
of such claims.  We have repeatedly emphasized the impor­
tance of clear rules in antitrust law.  Courts are ill suited 
“to  act  as  central  planners,  identifying  the  proper  price, 
quantity, and other terms of dealing.”  Trinko, 540 U. S., at 
408.  “ ‘No court should impose a duty to deal that it cannot 
3 Like the Court of Appeals, 503 F. 3d, at 880, amici argue that price­
squeeze claims have been recognized by Courts of Appeals for many years, 
beginning with Judge Hand’s opinion in United States v. Aluminum Co. of 
America, 148 F. 2d 416 (CA2 1945) (Alcoa).  In that case, the Government 
alleged that Alcoa was using its monopoly power in the upstream alumi­
num ingot market to squeeze the proﬁts of downstream aluminum sheet 
fabricators.  The court concluded: “That it was unlawful to set the price 
of ‘sheet’ so low and hold the price of ingot so high, seems to us unques­
tionable, provided, as we have held, that on this record the price of ingot 
must be regarded as higher than a ‘fair price.’ ”  Id., at 438.  Given devel­
opments in economic theory and antitrust jurisprudence since Alcoa, we 
ﬁnd our recent decisions in Trinko and Brooke Group more pertinent to 
the question before us. 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  453 
Opinion of the Court 
explain or adequately and reasonably supervise.  The prob­
lem should be deemed irremedia[ble] by antitrust law when 
compulsory access requires the court to assume the day-to­
day controls characteristic of a regulatory agency.’ ”  Id., at 
415  (quoting  Areeda,  Essential  Facilities:  An  Epithet  in 
Need  of  Limiting  Principles,  58  Antitrust  L.  J.  841,  853 
(1989)); see also Concord v. Boston Edison Co., 915 F. 2d 17, 
25 (CA1 1990) (Breyer, C. J.) (“[A]ntitrust courts normally 
avoid direct price administration, relying on rules and rem­
edies . . . that are easier to administer”). 
It is difﬁcult enough for courts to identify and remedy an 
alleged anticompetitive practice at one level, such as preda­
tory pricing in retail markets or a violation of the duty-to­
deal  doctrine  at  the  wholesale  level.  See  Brooke  Group, 
supra, at 225 (predation claims “requir[e] an understanding 
of the extent and duration of the alleged predation, the rel­
ative  ﬁnancial  strength  of  the  predator  and  its  intended 
victim, and their respective incentives and will”); Trinko, 
supra, at 408.  Recognizing price-squeeze claims would re­
quire courts simultaneously to police both the wholesale and 
retail  prices  to  ensure  that  rival  ﬁrms  are  not  being 
squeezed.  And courts would be aiming at a moving target, 
since it is the interaction between these two prices that may 
result in a squeeze. 
Perhaps most troubling, ﬁrms that seek to avoid price­
squeeze liability will have no safe harbor for their pricing 
practices.  See Concord, supra, at 22 (antitrust rules “must 
be clear enough for lawyers to explain them to clients”).  At 
least in the predatory pricing context, ﬁrms know they will 
not incur liability as long as their retail prices are above cost. 
Brooke Group, supra, at 223.  No such guidance is available 
for price-squeeze claims.  See, e. g., 3B P. Areeda & H. Ho­
venkamp, Antitrust Law ¶ 767c, p. 138 (3d ed. 2008) (“[A]nti­
trust faces a severe problem not only in recognizing any § 2 
[price-squeeze]  offense,  but  also  in  formulating  a  suitable 
remedy”). 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
454  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
The most commonly articulated standard for price 
squeezes is that the defendant must leave its rivals a “fair” 
or “adequate” margin between the wholesale price and the 
retail price.  See Concord, supra, at 23–25; Alcoa, 148 F. 2d 
416, 437–438 (CA2 1945).  One of our colleagues has high­
lighted the ﬂaws of this test in Socratic fashion: 
“[H]ow is a judge or jury to determine a ‘fair price?’  Is 
it the price charged by other suppliers of the primary 
product?  None exist.  Is it the price that competition 
‘would have set’ were the primary level not monopo­
lized?  How can the court determine this price without 
examining  costs  and  demands,  indeed  without  acting 
like a rate-setting regulatory agency, the rate-setting 
proceedings of which often last for several years?  Fur­
ther, how is the court to decide the proper size of the 
price ‘gap?’  Must it be large enough for all independent 
competing ﬁrms to make a ‘living proﬁt,’ no matter how 
inefﬁcient they may be? . . . And how should the court 
respond when costs or demands change over time, as 
they inevitably will?”  Concord, supra, at 25. 
Some  amici  respond  to  these  concerns  by  proposing  a 
“transfer  price  test”  for  identifying  an  unlawful  price 
squeeze: A price squeeze should be presumed if the upstream 
monopolist could not have made a proﬁt by selling at its re­
tail rates if it purchased inputs at its own wholesale rates. 
Brief for American Antitrust Institute (AAI) 30; Brief for 
COMPTEL 16–19; see Ray v. Indiana & Mich. Elec. Co., 606 
F. Supp. 757, 776–777 (ND Ill. 1984).  Whether or not that 
test is administrable, it lacks any grounding in our antitrust 
jurisprudence.  An  upstream  monopolist  with  no  duty  to 
deal is free to charge whatever wholesale price it would like; 
antitrust law does not prohibit lawfully obtained monopolies 
from  charging  monopoly  prices.  Trinko,  supra,  at  407 
(“The mere possession of monopoly power, and the concomi­
tant charging of monopoly prices, is not only not unlawful; it 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  455 
Opinion of the Court 
is an important element of the free-market system”).  Simi­
larly, the Sherman Act does not forbid—indeed, it encour­
ages—aggressive price competition at the retail level, as long 
as  the  prices  being  charged  are  not  predatory.  Brooke 
Group, 509 U. S., at 223–224.  If both the wholesale price 
and the retail price are independently lawful, there is no 
basis for imposing antitrust liability simply because a verti­
cally integrated ﬁrm’s wholesale price happens to be greater 
than or equal to its retail price. 
2. Amici  assert  that  there  are  circumstances  in  which 
price squeezes may harm competition.  For example, they 
assert that price squeezes may raise entry barriers that for­
tify the upstream monopolist’s position; they also contend 
that price squeezes may impair nonprice competition and in­
novation in the downstream market by driving independent 
ﬁrms out of business.  See Brief for AAI 11–15; Concord, 
supra, at 23–24. 
The problem, however, is that amici have not identiﬁed 
any independent competitive harm caused by price squeezes 
above and beyond the harm that would result from a duty­
to-deal violation at the wholesale level or predatory pricing 
at the retail level.  See 3A P. Areeda & H. Hovenkamp, An­
titrust Law ¶ 767c, p. 126 (2d ed. 2002) (“[I]t is difﬁcult to 
see any competitive signiﬁcance [of a price squeeze] apart 
from the consequences of vertical integration itself”).  To 
the extent a monopolist violates one of these doctrines, the 
plaintiffs have a remedy under existing law.  We do not need 
to endorse a new theory of liability to prevent such harm. 
IV 
Lastly, as mentioned above, plaintiffs have asked us for 
leave to amend  their complaint to bring  a Brooke Group 
predatory pricing claim.  We need not decide whether leave 
to amend should be granted.  Our grant of certiorari was 
limited to the question whether price-squeeze claims are cog­
nizable in  the absence  of an  antitrust duty  to deal.  The 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
456  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Opinion of the Court
 
Court of Appeals addressed only AT&T’s motion for judg­
ment on the pleadings on the plaintiffs’ original complaint.4 
For the reasons stated, we hold that the price-squeeze claims 
set  forth  in  that  complaint  are  not  cognizable  under  the 
Sherman Act. 
Plaintiffs have also ﬁled an amended complaint, and the 
District Court concluded that this complaint, generously con­
strued,  could  be  read  as  alleging  conduct  that  met  the 
Brooke Group requirements for predatory pricing.  App. to 
Pet. for Cert. 47a–52a, 56a.  That order, however, applied 
the “no set of facts” pleading standard that we have since 
rejected as too lenient.  See Bell Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, 
550 U. S. 544, 561–563 (2007).  It is for the District Court on 
remand to consider whether the amended complaint states a 
claim upon which relief may be granted in light of the new 
pleading standard we articulated in Twombly, whether plain­
tiffs should be given leave to amend their complaint to bring 
a claim under Brooke Group, and such other matters prop­
erly before it.  Even if the amended complaint is further 
amended to add a Brooke Group claim, it may not survive a 
motion to dismiss.  For if AT&T can bankrupt the plaintiffs 
by refusing to deal altogether, the plaintiffs must demon­
strate why the law prevents AT&T from putting them out of 
4 We note a procedural irregularity with this case: Normally, an amended 
complaint  supersedes  the  original  complaint.  See  6  C.  Wright  &  A. 
Miller, Federal Practice & Procedure §1476, pp. 556–557 (2d ed. 1990). 
Here, the District Court addressed the amended complaint in its 2005 
order, App. to Pet. for Cert. 36a–52a, but the court only certiﬁed its 2004 
order—addressing the original complaint—for interlocutory appeal, id., 
at 56a–57a.  Both parties, as well as the Solicitor General, have expressed 
confusion about whether the amended complaint and the 2005 order are 
properly before this Court.  See Brief for Petitioners 9, n. 6 (noting “some 
ambiguity” about which order was certiﬁed); Brief for United States as 
Amicus Curiae  17 (“[I]t is unclear  whether the 2005 Order  and the 
amended complaint are properly at issue in this interlocutory appeal”); 
Brief for Respondents 8–10.  The Court of Appeals majority did not ad­
dress any of the District Court’s holdings from the 2005 order, so we de­
cline to consider those issues at this time. 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  457 
Breyer, J., concurring in judgment 
business by pricing them out of the market.  Nevertheless, 
such questions are for the District Court to decide in the 
ﬁrst instance.  We do not address these issues here, as they 
are outside the scope of the question presented and were not 
addressed by the Court of Appeals in the decision below. 
See Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U. S. 709, 718, n. 7 (2005) (“[W]e 
are a court of review, not of ﬁrst view”). 
* * * 
Trinko holds that a defendant with no antitrust duty to 
deal with its rivals has no duty to deal under the terms and 
conditions preferred by those rivals.  540 U. S., at 409–410. 
Brooke  Group  holds  that  low  prices  are  only  actionable 
under the Sherman Act when the prices are below cost and 
there is a dangerous probability that the predator will be 
able to recoup the proﬁts it loses from the low prices.  509 
U. S., at 222–224.  In this case, plaintiffs have not stated a 
duty-to-deal claim under Trinko and have not stated a preda­
tory pricing claim under Brooke Group.  They have none­
theless tried to join a wholesale claim that cannot succeed 
with a retail claim that cannot succeed, and alchemize them 
into a new form of antitrust liability never before recognized 
by this Court.  We decline the invitation to recognize such 
claims.  Two wrong claims do not make one that is right. 
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and 
the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with 
this opinion. 
It is so ordered. 
Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Stevens, Justice 
Souter,  and  Justice  Ginsburg  join,  concurring  in  the 
judgment. 
I would accept respondents’ concession that the Ninth Cir­
cuit majority’s “price squeeze” holding is wrong, I would va­
cate the Circuit’s decision, and I would remand the case in 
order to allow the District Court to determine whether re­
spondents may proceed with their “predatory pricing” claim 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
458  PACIFIC BELL TELEPHONE CO. v. LINKLINE
 
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
 
Breyer, J., concurring in judgment
 
as set forth in Judge Gould’s dissenting Ninth Circuit opin­
ion.  linkLine  Communications,  Inc.  v.  SBC  California, 
Inc., 503 F. 3d 876, 887 (2007). 
A “price squeeze” claim ﬁnds its natural home in a Sher­
man Act § 2 monopolization case where the Government as 
plaintiff seeks to show that a defendant’s monopoly power 
rests, not upon “skill, foresight and industry,” United States 
v. Aluminum Co. of America, 148 F. 2d 416, 430 (CA2 1945) 
(Alcoa),  but  upon  exclusionary  conduct,  United  States  v. 
Grinnell  Corp.,  384  U. S.  563,  576  (1966).  As  this  Court 
pointed out in Verizon Communications Inc. v. Law Ofﬁces 
of Curtis V. Trinko, LLP, 540 U. S. 398 (2004), the “ ‘means 
of illicit exclusion, like the means of legitimate competition, 
are myriad.’ ”  Id., at 414 (quoting United States v. Micro­
soft Corp., 253 F. 3d 34, 58 (CADC 2001) (en banc) (per cu­
riam)).  They may involve a “course of dealing” that, even 
if proﬁtable, indicates a “willingness to forsake short-term 
proﬁts to achieve an anticompetitive end.”  Trinko, supra, 
at 409.  See, e. g., Aspen Skiing Co. v. Aspen Highlands Ski­
ing Corp., 472 U. S. 585, 610–611 (1985); Complaint in United 
States v. International Business Machines Corp., Civil Ac­
tion No. 69 Civ. 200 (SDNY, ﬁled Jan. 17, 1969), ¶ 20(c), re­
printed in F. Fisher, J. McGowan, & J. Greenwood, Folded, 
Spindled,  and  Mutilated:  Economic  Analysis  and  U.  S.  v. 
IBM, App.  357 (1983).  And,  as Judge  Hand wrote  many 
years ago, a “price squeeze” may fall within that latter cate­
gory.  Alcoa, supra, at 437–438.  As a matter of logic, it 
may be that a particular price squeeze can only be exclusion­
ary if a refusal by the monopolist to sell to the “squeezed 
customer” would also be exclusionary.  But a court, faced 
with a price squeeze rather than a refusal to deal, is unlikely 
to ﬁnd the latter (hypothetical) question any easier to answer 
than the former. 
I would try neither to answer these hypothetical questions 
here nor to foreshadow their answer.  We have before us a 
regulated ﬁrm.  During the time covered by the complaint, 

NEW PAGE

555US2 Unit:$U25 [01-28-1417:16:35] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 555 U. S. 438 (2009)  459 
Breyer, J., concurring in judgment 
petitioners were required to provide wholesale digital sub­
scriber line (DSL) transport service as a common carrier, 
charging “just and reasonable” rates that were not “unrea­
sonabl[y]  discriminat[ory].”  47  U. S. C.  §§ 201(b),  202(a) 
(2000 ed.).  And, in my view, a purchaser from a regulated 
ﬁrm (which, if a natural monopolist, is lawfully such) cannot 
win an antitrust case simply by showing that it is “squeezed” 
between the regulated ﬁrm’s wholesale price (to the plain­
tiff) and its retail price (to customers for whose business 
both ﬁrms compete).  When a regulatory structure exists to 
deter and remedy anticompetitive harm, the costs of anti­
trust enforcement are likely to be greater than the beneﬁts. 
See Concord v. Boston Edison Co., 915 F. 2d 17, 26–29 (CA1 
1990).  Cf. 3 P. Areeda & D. Turner, Antitrust Law ¶¶ 834– 
836, pp. 344–355 (1978) (whether a particular course of con­
duct counts as “exclusionary” for antitrust purposes depends 
upon a host of factors, including, for example, the market 
position of the defendant, the nature of the market, and the 
nature of the defendant’s conduct). 
Unlike Concord, the regulators here controlled prices only 
at the wholesale level.  See 915 F. 2d, at 29.  But respond­
ents do not claim that that regulatory fact makes any differ­
ence; and rightly so, for as far as I can tell, respondents could 
have gone to the regulators and asked for petitioners’ whole­
sale prices to be lowered in light of the alleged price squeeze. 
Cf.  FPC  v.  Conway  Corp.,  426  U. S.  271,  279  (1976);  3 
Areeda & Turner, supra, ¶ 726e, at 219–220. 
Respondents now seek to show only that the defendant 
engaged  in  predatory  pricing,  within  the  terms  of  this 
Court’s decision in Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown & William­
son Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209 (1993).  The District Court 
can determine whether there is anything in the procedural 
history of  this case  that bars respondents  from asserting 
their predatory pricing claim.  And if not, it can decide the 
merits of that claim.  As I said, I would remand the case so 
that it can do so. 

NEW PAGE