549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
312  OCTOBER TERM, 2006 
Syllabus 
WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARD- 

WOOD LUMBER CO., INC. 

certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the ninth circuit 
No. 05–381.  Argued November 28, 2006—Decided February 20, 2007 
Respondent Ross-Simmons, a sawmill, ﬁled suit under § 2 of the Sherman 
Act, alleging that petitioner Weyerhaeuser drove it out of business by 
bidding up the price of sawlogs to a level that prevented Ross-Simmons 
from being proﬁtable.  The District Court, inter alia, rejected Weyer­
haeuser’s proposed predatory-bidding jury instructions that incorpo­
rated elements of the test applied to predatory-pricing claims in Brooke 
Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209.  The 
jury returned a verdict against Weyerhaeuser.  The Ninth Circuit af­
ﬁrmed, rejecting Weyerhaeuser’s argument that Brooke Group’s stand­
ard should apply to predatory-bidding claims. 
Held: The test this Court applied to predatory-pricing claims in Brooke 
Group also applies to predatory-bidding claims.  Pp. 318–326. 
(a) Predatory pricing is a scheme in which the predator reduces the 
sale price of its product hoping to drive competitors out of business and, 
once competition has been vanquished, raises prices to a supracompeti­
tive level.  Brooke Group established two prerequisites to recovery on 
a predatory-pricing claim: First, a plaintiff must show that the prices 
complained of are below cost, 509 U. S., at 222, because allowing recov­
ery for above-cost price cutting could chill conduct—price cutting—that 
directly beneﬁts consumers.  Second, a plaintiff must show that the al­
leged predator had “a dangerous probabilit[y] of recouping its invest­
ment in below-cost pric[ing],” id., at 224, because without such a proba­
bility, it is highly unlikely that a ﬁrm would engage in predatory pricing. 
The costs of erroneous ﬁndings of predatory-pricing liability are quite 
high because “ ‘[t]he mechanism by which a ﬁrm engages in predatory 
pricing—lowering prices—is the same mechanism by which a ﬁrm stim­
ulates competition,’ ” and, therefore, mistaken liability ﬁndings would 
“ ‘ “chill the very conduct the antitrust laws are designed to protect.” ’ ” 
Id., at 226.  Pp. 318–320. 
(b) Predatory bidding involves the exercise of market power on the 
market’s buy, or input, side.  To engage in predatory bidding, a pur­
chaser bids up the market price of an input so high that rival buyers 
cannot  survive,  thus  acquiring  monopsony  power,  which  is  market 
power on the buy side of the market.  Once a predatory bidder causes 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  313 
Syllabus 
competing buyers to exit the market, it will attempt to drive down input 
prices to reap supracompetitive proﬁts that will at least offset the losses 
it suffered in bidding up input prices.  Pp. 320–321. 
(c) Predatory-pricing and predatory-bidding claims are analytically 
similar.  And the close theoretical connection between monopoly and 
monopsony suggests that similar legal standards should apply to both 
sorts of claims.  Both involve the deliberate use of unilateral pricing 
measures for anticompetitive purposes and both require ﬁrms to incur 
certain short-term losses on the chance that they might later make su­
pracompetitive proﬁts.  More importantly, predatory bidding mirrors 
predatory pricing in respects deemed signiﬁcant in Brooke Group.  Be­
cause rational businesses will rarely suffer short-term losses in hopes 
of  reaping  supracompetitive  proﬁts,  Brooke  Group’s  conclusion  that 
“ ‘predatory pricing schemes are rarely tried, and even more rarely suc­
cessful,’” 509 U. S., at 226, applies with equal force to predatory-bidding 
schemes.  And like the predatory conduct in Brooke Group, actions 
taken in a predatory-bidding scheme are often “ ‘ “the very essence of 
competition,” ’ ” ibid., because a failed predatory-bidding scheme can be 
a “boon to consumers,” see id., at 224.  Predatory bidding also presents 
less of a direct threat of consumer harm than predatory pricing, which 
achieves ultimate success by charging higher prices to consumers, be­
cause a predatory bidder does not necessarily rely on raising prices in 
the output market to recoup its losses.  Pp. 321–325. 
(d) Given these similarities, Brooke Group’s two-pronged test should 
apply to predatory-bidding claims.  A predatory-bidding plaintiff must 
prove that the predator’s bidding on the buy side caused the cost of the 
relevant output to rise above the revenues generated in the sale of those 
outputs.  Because the risk of chilling procompetitive behavior with too 
lax a liability standard is as serious here as it was in Brooke Group, 
only higher bidding that leads to below-cost pricing in the relevant out­
put market will sufﬁce as a basis for predatory-bidding liability.  A 
predatory-bidding plaintiff also must prove that the defendant has a 
dangerous probability of recouping the losses incurred in bidding up 
input prices through the exercise of monopsony power.  Making such a 
showing will require “a close analysis of both the scheme alleged by the 
plaintiff and the [relevant market’s] structure and conditions,” 509 U. S., 
at 226.  Pp. 325–326. 
(e) Because Ross-Simmons has conceded that it has not satisﬁed the 
Brooke Group standard, its predatory-bidding theory of liability cannot 
support the jury’s verdict.  P. 326. 
411 F. 3d 1030, vacated and remanded. 
Thomas, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
314  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
Andrew J. Pincus argued the cause for petitioner.  With 
him on the briefs were Charles A. Rothfeld, Guy C. Stephen­
son, Stephen V. Bomse, M. Laurence Popofsky, Kevin J. Ar­
quit, and Joseph F. Tringali. 
Kannon K. Shanmugam argued the cause for the United 
States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With him on the 
brief were Solicitor General Clement, Assistant Attorney 
General Barnett, Deputy Solicitor General Hungar, Deputy 
Assistant Attorney General Masoudi, Catherine G. O’Sulli­
van, and Adam D. Hirsh. 
Michael  E.  Haglund  argued  the  cause  for  respondent. 
With  him  on  the  brief  were  Michael  K.  Kelley  and  Roy 
Pulvers.* 
Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court. 
Respondent Ross-Simmons, a sawmill, sued petitioner 
Weyerhaeuser, alleging that Weyerhaeuser drove it out of 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for AT&T Inc. et al. 
by A. Douglas Melamed, Jonathan Nuechterlein, William M. Schur, Ron­
ald A. Stern, John Thorne, and Paul J. Larkin, Jr.; for the Business 
Roundtable et al. by Janet L. McDavid, Catherine E. Stetson, Jessica L. 
Ellsworth, Jan S. Amundson, and Quentin Riegel; for the Chamber of 
Commerce of the United States of America et al. by Roy T. Englert, Jr., 
Donald J. Russell, Mark T. Stancil, Stephen A. Bokat, Robin S. Conrad, 
Amar D. Sarwal, and Richard S. Wasserstrom; for Economists by Joe 
Sims and Beth Heifetz; for Law Professors by Joseph J. Simons and Moses 
Silverman; and for Timberland Owners and Managers by Jeffrey A. Lam­
ken and Barnes H. Ellis. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the State of 
California et al. by Hardy Myers, Attorney General of Oregon, and Tim 
D. Nord, Senior Assistant Attorney General, by Bill Lockyer, Attorney 
General of California, Thomas Greene, Chief Assistant Attorney General, 
Kathleen E. Foote, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Emilio E. Var­
anini IV, Deputy Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for 
their respective States as follows: Terry Goddard of Arizona, Thomas J. 
Miller of Iowa, Charles C. Foti, Jr., of Louisiana, Mike McGrath of Mon­
tana, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Peggy A. Lauten­
schlager of Wisconsin; for the American Antitrust Institute by Jonathan 
L. Rubin, Jonathan W. Cuneo, and Robert H. Lande; and for Forest Indus­
try Participants by R. Daniel Lindahl. 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  315 
Opinion of the Court 
business by bidding up the price of sawlogs to a level that 
prevented Ross-Simmons from being proﬁtable.  A jury re­
turned a verdict in favor of Ross-Simmons on its monopo­
lization claim, and the Ninth Circuit afﬁrmed.  We granted 
certiorari to decide whether the test we applied to claims of 
predatory pricing in Brooke Group Ltd. v.  Brown & Wil­
liamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209 (1993), also applies to 
claims of predatory bidding.  We hold that it does.  Accord­
ingly, we vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
I 
This antitrust case concerns the acquisition of red alder 
sawlogs by the mills that process those logs in the Paciﬁc 
Northwest.  These hardwood-lumber mills usually acquire 
logs in one of three ways.  Some logs are purchased on the 
open bidding market.  Some come to the mill through stand­
ing short- and long-term agreements with timberland own­
ers.  And others are harvested from timberland owned by 
the sawmills themselves.  The allegations relevant to our 
decision in this case relate to the bidding market. 
Ross-Simmons began operating a hardwood-lumber saw­
mill in Longview, Washington, in 1962.  Weyerhaeuser en­
tered the Northwestern hardwood-lumber market in 1980 by 
acquiring an existing lumber company.  Weyerhaeuser grad­
ually increased the scope of its hardwood-lumber operation, 
and it now owns six hardwood sawmills in the region.  By 
2001, Weyerhaeuser’s mills were acquiring approximately 65 
percent of the alder logs available for sale in the region. 
App. 754a, 341a. 
From 1990 to 2000, Weyerhaeuser made more than $75 
million in capital investments in its hardwood mills in the 
Paciﬁc Northwest.  Id., at 159a.  During this period, pro­
duction increased at every Northwestern hardwood mill that 
Weyerhaeuser owned.  Id., at 160a.  In addition to increas­
ing  production,  Weyerhaeuser  used  “state-of-the-art  tech­
nology,” id., at 500a, including sawing equipment, to increase 
the amount of lumber recovered from every log, id., at 500a, 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
316  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
549a.  By contrast, Ross-Simmons appears to have engaged 
in little efﬁciency-enhancing investment.  See id., at 438a– 
441a. 
Logs represent up to 75 percent of a sawmill’s total costs. 
See id., at 169a.  And from 1998 to 2001, the price of alder 
sawlogs increased while prices for ﬁnished hardwood lumber 
fell.  These divergent trends in input and output prices cut 
into the mills’ proﬁt margins, and Ross-Simmons suffered 
heavy losses during this time.  See id., at 155a (showing a 
negative net income from 1998 to 2000).  Saddled with sev­
eral million dollars in debt, Ross-Simmons shut down its mill 
completely in May 2001.  Id., at 156a. 
Ross-Simmons blamed Weyerhaeuser for driving it out of 
business by bidding up input costs, and it ﬁled an antitrust 
suit against Weyerhaeuser for monopolization and attempted 
monopolization under § 2 of the Sherman Act.  See 26 Stat. 
209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 2 (2000 ed., Supp. IV).  Ross-
Simmons  alleged  that,  among  other  anticompetitive  acts, 
Weyerhaeuser had used “its dominant position in the alder 
sawlog market to drive up the prices for alder sawlogs to 
levels that severely reduced or eliminated the proﬁt margins 
of Weyerhaeuser’s alder sawmill competition.”  App. 135a. 
Proceeding  in  part  on  this  “predatory-bidding”  theory, 
Ross-Simmons argued that Weyerhaeuser had overpaid for 
alder sawlogs to cause sawlog prices to rise to artiﬁcially 
high levels as part of a plan to drive Ross-Simmons out of 
business.  As proof that this practice had occurred, Ross-
Simmons pointed to Weyerhaeuser’s large share of the alder 
purchasing market, rising alder sawlog prices during the al­
leged predation period, and Weyerhaeuser’s declining proﬁts 
during that same period. 
Prior to  trial, Weyerhaeuser  moved for summary  judg­
ment on Ross-Simmons’ predatory-bidding theory.  Id., at 
6a–24a.  The District Court denied the motion.  Id., at 58a– 
69a.  At the close of the 9-day trial, Weyerhaeuser moved 
for judgment as a matter of law, or alternatively, for a new 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  317 
Opinion of the Court 
trial.  The motions were based in part on Weyerhaeuser’s 
argument that Ross-Simmons had not satisﬁed the standard 
this Court set forth in Brooke Group, supra.  App. 940a– 
942a.  The  District  Court  denied  Weyerhaeuser’s  motion. 
Id., at 720a, App. to Pet. for Cert. 46a.  The District Court 
also rejected proposed predatory-bidding jury instructions 
that incorporated elements of the Brooke Group test.  App. 
725a–730a, 978a.  Ultimately, the District Court instructed 
the jury that Ross-Simmons could prove that Weyerhaeus­
er’s bidding practices were anticompetitive acts if the jury 
concluded that Weyerhaeuser “purchased more logs than it 
needed, or paid a higher price for logs than necessary, in 
order  to  prevent  [Ross-Simmons]  from  obtaining  the  logs 
they needed  at a  fair price.”  Id., at  978a.  Finding that 
Ross-Simmons had proved its claim for monopolization, the 
jury returned a $26 million verdict against Weyerhaeuser. 
Id., at 967a.  The verdict was trebled to approximately $79 
million. 
Weyerhaeuser appealed to the Court of Appeals for the 
Ninth  Circuit.  There,  Weyerhaeuser  argued  that  Brooke 
Group’s standard for claims of predatory pricing should also 
apply  to  claims  of  predatory  bidding.  The  Ninth  Circuit 
disagreed and afﬁrmed the verdict against Weyerhaeuser. 
Confederated  Tribes  of  Siletz  Indians  of  Ore.  v.  Weyer­
haeuser Co., 411 F. 3d 1030, 1035–1036 (2005). 
The Court of Appeals reasoned that “buy-side predatory 
bidding” and “sell-side predatory pricing,” though similar, 
are materially different in that predatory bidding does not 
necessarily beneﬁt consumers or stimulate competition in the 
way that predatory pricing does.  Id., at 1037.  Concluding 
that “the concerns that led the Brooke Group Court to estab­
lish a high standard of liability in the predatory pricing con­
text do not carry over to this predatory bidding context with 
the  same  force,”  the  Court  of  Appeals  declined  to  apply 
Brooke Group to Ross-Simmons’ claims of predatory bidding. 
411 F. 3d, at 1038.  The Court of Appeals went on to con­

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
318  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
clude that substantial evidence supported a ﬁnding of lia­
bility on the predatory-bidding theory.  Id., at 1045.  We 
granted certiorari to decide whether Brooke Group applies 
to claims of predatory bidding.  548 U. S. 903 (2006).  We 
hold  that  it  does,  and  we  vacate  the  Court  of  Appeals’ 
judgment. 
II 
In  Brooke  Group,  we  considered  what  a  plaintiff  must 
show in order to succeed on a claim of predatory pricing 
under  § 2  of  the  Sherman  Act.1  In  a  typical  predatory­
pricing scheme, the predator reduces the sale price of its 
product (its output) to below cost, hoping to drive competi­
tors out of business.  Then, with competition vanquished, 
the predator raises output prices to a supracompetitive level. 
See Matsushita Elec. Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 
475 U. S. 574, 584–585, n. 8 (1986) (describing predatory pric­
ing).  For the scheme to make economic sense, the losses 
suffered from pricing goods below cost must be recouped 
(with interest) during the supracompetitive-pricing stage of 
the  scheme.  Id.,  at  588–589;  Cargill,  Inc.  v.  Monfort  of 
Colo., Inc., 479 U. S. 104, 121–122, n. 17 (1986); see also R. 
Bork, The Antitrust Paradox 145 (1978).  Recognizing this 
economic reality, we established two prerequisites to recov­
ery on claims of predatory pricing.  “First, a plaintiff seek­
ing to establish competitive injury resulting from a rival’s 
low  prices  must  prove  that  the  prices  complained  of  are 
below an appropriate measure of its rival’s costs.”  Brooke 
Group, 509 U. S., at 222.  Second, a plaintiff must demon­
strate that “the competitor had . . . a   dangerous probabilit[y] 
1 Brooke Group dealt with a claim under the Robinson-Patman Act, but 
as we observed, “primary-line competitive injury under the Robinson-
Patman Act is of the same general character as the injury inﬂicted by 
predatory pricing schemes actionable under § 2 of the Sherman Act.”  509 
U. S., at 221.  Because of this similarity, the standard adopted in Brooke 
Group applies to predatory-pricing claims under § 2 of the Sherman Act. 
Id., at 222. 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  319 
Opinion of the Court 
of  recouping  its  investment  in  below-cost  prices.”  Id., 
at 224. 
The ﬁrst prong of the test—requiring that prices be below 
cost—is necessary because “[a]s a general rule, the exclusion­
ary effect of prices above a relevant measure of cost either 
reﬂects the lower cost structure of the alleged predator, and 
so represents competition on the merits, or is beyond the 
practical ability of a judicial tribunal to control.”  Id., at 223. 
We were particularly wary of allowing recovery for above­
cost price cutting because allowing such claims could, per­
versely, “chil[l] legitimate price cutting,” which directly ben­
eﬁts consumers.  See id., at 223–224; Atlantic Richﬁeld Co. 
v. USA Petroleum Co., 495 U. S. 328, 340 (1990) (“Low prices 
beneﬁt consumers regardless of how those prices are set, and 
so  long  as  they  are  above  predatory  levels,  they  do  not 
threaten  competition”).  Thus,  we  speciﬁcally  declined  to 
allow plaintiffs to recover for above-cost price cutting, con­
cluding that “discouraging a price cut and . . . depriving con­
sumers of the beneﬁts of lower prices . . .  does not constitute 
sound antitrust policy.”  Brooke Group, supra, at 224. 
The second prong of the Brooke Group test—requiring 
that  there  be  a  dangerous  probability  of  recoupment  of 
losses—is necessary because, without a dangerous probabil­
ity of recoupment, it is highly unlikely that a ﬁrm would 
engage  in  predatory  pricing.  As  the  Court  explained  in 
Matsushita, a ﬁrm engaged in a predatory-pricing scheme 
makes an investment—the losses suffered plus the proﬁts 
that would have been realized absent the scheme—at the 
initial, below-cost-selling phase.  475 U. S., at 588–589.  For 
that investment to be rational, a ﬁrm must reasonably expect 
to recoup in the long run at least its original investment with 
supracompetitive proﬁts.  Ibid.; Brooke Group, 509 U. S., at 
224.  Without such a reasonable expectation, a rational ﬁrm 
would not willingly suffer deﬁnite, short-run losses.  Recog­
nizing the centrality of recoupment to a predatory-pricing 
scheme, we required predatory-pricing plaintiffs to “demon­

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
320  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
strate that there is a likelihood that the predatory scheme 
alleged would cause a rise in prices above a competitive level 
that would be sufﬁcient to compensate for the amounts ex­
pended  on  the  predation,  including the  time  value  of  the 
money invested in it.”  Id., at 225. 
We described the two parts of the Brooke Group test as 
“essential components of real market injury” that were “not 
easy to establish.”  Id., at 226.  We also reiterated that the 
costs of erroneous ﬁndings of predatory-pricing liability were 
quite high because “ ‘[t]he mechanism by which a ﬁrm en­
gages  in  predatory  pricing—lowering  prices—is  the  same 
mechanism by which a ﬁrm stimulates competition,’ ” and, 
therefore, mistaken ﬁndings of liability would “ ‘ “chill the 
very conduct the antitrust laws are designed to protect.” ’ ” 
Ibid. (quoting Cargill, supra, at 122, n. 17). 
III 
Predatory  bidding,  which  Ross-Simmons  alleges  in  this 
case, involves the exercise of market power on the buy side 
or input side of a market.  In a predatory-bidding scheme, a 
purchaser of inputs “bids up the market price of a critical 
input to such high levels that rival buyers cannot survive (or 
compete as vigorously) and, as a result, the predating buyer 
acquires (or maintains or increases its) monopsony power.” 
Kirkwood, Buyer Power and Exclusionary Conduct, 72 Anti­
trust L. J. 625, 652 (2005) (hereinafter Kirkwood).  Monop­
sony power is market power on the buy side of the market. 
Blair & Harrison, Antitrust Policy and Monopsony, 76 Cor­
nell L. Rev. 297 (1991).  As such, a monopsony is to the buy 
side of the market what a monopoly is to the sell side and is 
sometimes colloquially called a “buyer’s monopoly.”  See id., 
at 301, 320; Piraino, A Proposed Antitrust Approach to Buy­
ers’ Competitive Conduct, 56 Hastings L. J. 1121, 1125 (2005). 
A predatory bidder ultimately aims to exercise the monop­
sony power gained from bidding up input prices.  To that 
end, once the predatory bidder has caused competing buyers 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  321 
Opinion of the Court 
to exit the market for purchasing inputs, it will seek to “re­
strict its input purchases below the competitive level,” thus 
“reduc[ing] the unit price for the remaining input[s] it pur­
chases.”  Salop, Anticompetitive Overbuying by Power 
Buyers, 72 Antitrust L. J. 669, 672 (2005) (hereinafter Salop). 
The reduction in input prices will lead to “a signiﬁcant cost 
saving that more than offsets the proﬁt[s] that would have 
been earned on the output.”  Ibid.  If all goes as planned, 
the predatory bidder will reap monopsonistic proﬁts that will 
offset any losses suffered in bidding up input prices.2  (In 
this case, the plaintiff was the defendant’s competitor in the 
input-purchasing market.  Thus, this case does not present 
a situation of suppliers suing a monopsonist buyer under § 2 
of the Sherman Act, nor does it present a risk of signiﬁcantly 
increased concentration in the market in which the monopso­
nist sells, i. e., the market for ﬁnished lumber.) 
IV 

A 

Predatory-pricing and predatory-bidding claims are ana­
lytically similar.  See Hovenkamp, The Law of Exclusionary 
Pricing, 2 Competition Policy Int’l, No. 1, pp. 21, 35 (Spring 
2006).  This similarity results from the close theoretical con­
nection between monopoly and monopsony.  See Kirkwood 
653 (describing monopsony as the “mirror image” of monop­
oly); Khan v. State Oil Co., 93 F. 3d 1358, 1361 (CA7 1996) 
(“[M]onopsony pricing . . . is a nalytically the same as monop­
oly or cartel pricing and [is] so treated by the law”), vacated 
and remanded on other grounds, 522 U. S. 3 (1997); Vogel v. 
2 If the predatory ﬁrm’s competitors in the input market and the output 
market are the same, then predatory bidding can also lead to the bidder’s 
acquisition of monopoly power in the output market.  In that case, which 
does not appear to be present here, the monopsonist could, under certain 
market conditions, also recoup its losses by raising output prices to monop­
olistic levels.  See Salop 679–682 (describing a monopsonist’s predatory 
strategy that depends upon raising prices in the output market). 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
322  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
American Soc. of Appraisers, 744 F. 2d 598, 601 (CA7 1984) 
(“[M]onopoly and monopsony are symmetrical distortions of 
competition from an economic standpoint”); see also Hearing 
on Monopsony Issues in Agriculture: Buying Power of Proc­
essors in Our Nation’s Agricultural Markets before the Sen­
ate Committee on the Judiciary, 108th Cong., 1st Sess., 13 
(2004).  The kinship between monopoly and monopsony sug­
gests that similar legal standards should apply to claims of 
monopolization and to claims of monopsonization.  Cf. Noll, 
“Buyer Power” and Economic Policy, 72 Antitrust L. J. 589, 
591 (2005) (“[A]symmetric treatment of monopoly and mo­
nopsony has no basis in economic analysis”). 
Tracking the economic similarity between monopoly and 
monopsony, predatory-pricing plaintiffs and predatory­
bidding  plaintiffs  make  strikingly  similar  allegations.  A 
predatory-pricing plaintiff alleges that a predator cut prices 
to drive the plaintiff out of business and, thereby, to reap 
monopoly proﬁts from the output market.  In parallel fash­
ion,  a  predatory-bidding  plaintiff  alleges  that  a  predator 
raised prices for a key input to drive the plaintiff out of busi­
ness and, thereby, to reap monopsony proﬁts in the input 
market.  Both claims involve the deliberate use of unilateral 
pricing measures for anticompetitive purposes.3  And both 
claims logically require ﬁrms to incur short-term losses on 
the chance that they might reap supracompetitive proﬁts in 
the future. 
3 Predatory bidding on inputs is not analytically different from preda­
tory overbuying of inputs.  Both practices fall under the rubric of monop­
sony predation and involve an input purchaser’s use of input prices in an 
attempt to exclude rival input purchasers.  The economic effect of the 
practices is identical: Input prices rise.  In a predatory-bidding scheme, 
the purchaser causes prices to rise by offering to pay more for inputs.  In 
a predatory-overbuying scheme, the purchaser causes prices to rise by 
demanding more of the input.  Either way, input prices increase.  Our 
use of the term “predatory bidding” is not meant to suggest that different 
legal treatment is appropriate for the economically identical practice of 
“predatory overbuying.” 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  323 
Opinion of the Court 
B 
More  importantly,  predatory  bidding  mirrors  predatory 
pricing in respects that we deemed signiﬁcant to our analysis 
in Brooke Group.  In Brooke Group, we noted that “ ‘preda­
tory pricing schemes are rarely tried, and even more rarely 
successful.’ ”  509  U. S.,  at  226  (quoting  Matsushita,  475 
U. S., at 589).  Predatory pricing requires a ﬁrm to suffer 
certain losses in the short term on the chance of reaping 
supracompetitive proﬁts in the future.  Id., at 588–589.  A 
rational business will rarely make this sacriﬁce.  Ibid.  The 
same reasoning applies to predatory bidding.  A predatory­
bidding scheme requires a buyer of inputs to suffer losses 
today on the chance that it will reap supracompetitive proﬁts 
in the future.  For this reason, “[s]uccessful monopsony pre­
dation is probably as unlikely as successful monopoly preda­
tion.”  R. Blair & J. Harrison, Monopsony 66 (1993). 
And like the predatory conduct alleged in Brooke Group, 
actions taken in a predatory-bidding scheme are often “‘“the 
very essence of competition.” ’ ”  509 U. S., at 226 (quoting 
Cargill, 479 U. S., at 122, n. 17, in turn quoting Matsushita, 
supra, at 594).  Just as sellers use output prices to compete 
for purchasers, buyers use bid prices to compete for scarce 
inputs.  There are myriad legitimate reasons—ranging from 
benign to afﬁrmatively procompetitive—why a buyer might 
bid up input prices.  A ﬁrm might bid up inputs as a result 
of miscalculation of its input needs or as a response to in­
creased consumer demand for its outputs.  A more efﬁcient 
ﬁrm might bid up input prices to acquire more inputs as a 
part of a procompetitive strategy to gain market share in the 
output market.  A ﬁrm that has adopted an input-intensive 
production process might bid up inputs to acquire the inputs 
necessary  for  its  process.  Or  a  ﬁrm  might  bid  up  input 
prices to acquire excess inputs as a hedge against the risk of 
future rises in input costs or future input shortages.  See 
Salop 682–683; Kirkwood 655.  There is nothing illicit about 
these bidding decisions.  Indeed, this sort of high bidding is 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
324  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
essential to competition and innovation on the buy side of 
the market.4 
Brooke Group also noted that a failed predatory-pricing 
scheme may beneﬁt consumers.  509 U. S., at 224.  The po­
tential beneﬁt results from the difﬁculty an aspiring predator 
faces in recouping losses suffered from below-cost pricing. 
Without successful recoupment, “predatory pricing produces 
lower aggregate prices in the market, and consumer welfare 
is enhanced.”  Ibid.  Failed predatory-bidding schemes can 
also, but will not necessarily, beneﬁt consumers.  See Salop 
677–678.  In the ﬁrst stage of a predatory-bidding scheme, 
the predator’s high bidding will likely lead to its acquisition 
of  more  inputs.  Usually,  the  acquisition  of  more  inputs 
leads to the manufacture of more outputs.  And increases in 
output generally result in lower prices to consumers.5  Id., 
at 677; Blair & Harrison, supra, at 66–67.  Thus, a failed 
predatory-bidding scheme can be a “boon to consumers” in 
the same way that we considered a predatory-pricing scheme 
to be.  See Brooke Group, supra, at 224. 
In addition, predatory bidding presents less of a direct 
threat of consumer harm than predatory pricing.  A 
predatory-pricing  scheme  ultimately  achieves  success  by 
charging higher prices to consumers.  By contrast, a 
predatory-bidding scheme could succeed with little or no ef­
fect on consumer prices because a predatory bidder does not 
necessarily rely on raising prices in the output market to 
recoup its losses.  Salop 676.  Even if output prices remain 
constant, a predatory bidder can use its power as the pre­
4 Higher prices for inputs obviously beneﬁt existing sellers of inputs and 
encourage new ﬁrms to enter the market for input sales as well. 
5 Consumer beneﬁt does not necessarily result at the ﬁrst stage because 
the predator might not use its excess inputs to manufacture additional 
outputs.  It might instead destroy the excess inputs.  See Salop 677, 
n. 22.  Also, if the same ﬁrms compete in the input and output markets, 
any increase in outputs by the predator could be offset by decreases in 
outputs from the predator’s struggling competitors. 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 549 U. S. 312 (2007)  325 
Opinion of the Court 
dominant buyer of inputs to force down input prices and cap­
ture monopsony proﬁts.  Ibid. 
C 
The general theoretical similarities of monopoly and mo­
nopsony combined with the theoretical and practical similari­
ties of predatory pricing and predatory bidding convince us 
that  our  two-pronged  Brooke  Group test  should  apply  to 
predatory-bidding claims. 
The ﬁrst prong of Brooke Group’s test requires little adap­
tation for the predatory-bidding context.  A plaintiff must 
prove that the alleged predatory bidding led to below-cost 
pricing of the predator’s outputs.  That is, the predator’s 
bidding on the buy side must have caused the cost of the 
relevant output to rise above the revenues generated in the 
sale of those outputs.  As with predatory pricing, the exclu­
sionary  effect  of  higher  bidding  that  does  not  result  in 
below-cost output pricing “is beyond the practical ability of 
a  judicial  tribunal  to  control  without  courting  intolerable 
risks  of  chilling  legitimate”  procompetitive  conduct.  509 
U. S., at 223.  Given the multitude of procompetitive ends 
served by higher bidding for inputs, the risk of chilling pro­
competitive behavior with too lax a liability standard is as 
serious here as it was in Brooke Group.  Consequently, only 
higher bidding that leads to below-cost pricing in the rele­
vant output market will sufﬁce as a basis for liability for 
predatory bidding. 
A predatory-bidding plaintiff also must prove that the de­
fendant has a dangerous probability of recouping the losses 
incurred in bidding up input prices through the exercise of 
monopsony  power.  Absent  proof  of  likely  recoupment,  a 
strategy of predatory bidding makes no economic sense be­
cause it would involve short-term losses with no likelihood 
of offsetting long-term gains.  Cf. id., at 224 (citing Matsu­
shita,  supra,  at  588–589).  As  with  predatory  pricing, 
making  a  showing  on  the  recoupment  prong  will  require 

NEW PAGE

549US2 Unit:$U15 [03-28-1012:12:49] PAGES PGT:OPIN
326  WEYERHAEUSER CO. v. ROSS-SIMMONS HARDWOOD 
LUMBER CO. 
Opinion of the Court 
“a close analysis of both the scheme alleged by the plaintiff 
and the structure and conditions of the relevant market.” 
Brooke Group, supra, at 226. 
Ross-Simmons has conceded that it has not satisﬁed the 
Brooke  Group standard.  Brief  for  Respondent  49; Tr.  of 
Oral Arg. 49.  Therefore, its predatory-bidding theory of lia­
bility cannot support the jury’s verdict. 
V 
For these reasons, we vacate the judgment of the Court of 
Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings con­
sistent with this opinion. 
It is so ordered. 

NEW PAGE