MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  173
Syllabus.
MINNEAPOLIS  & ST. LOUIS  RAILWAY  CO. v.
UNITED  STATES  ET  AL.
APPEAL FROM  THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT  COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT  OF  MINNESOTA.
No.  12.  Argued  November  16-17,  1959.-
Decided  December  14,  1959.*
Under § 5 (2)  of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Commission was
confronted with rival applications by several railroads for authority
to acquire  control of the Toledo,  Peoria & Western  Railroad,  an
independent,  short-line,  "bridge  carrier"  of  through  east-west
traffic  by-passing  the  congested  Chicago  and St.  Louis gateways
and connecting  with 16 other railroads.  After extended  hearings,
the Commission found that the plan  for joint control  of Western
by  the Santa  Fe and  Pennsylvania  Railroads  contemplated  that
Western would  continue  to  be operated  as  a separate  and  inde-
pendent  carrier  with responsible  local  management  and  that  all
existing  routes  via Western  would be  maintained and  kept open
without  discrimination  between  connecting  lines of railroads;  but
that the plan  of the Minneapolis  & St. Louis Railroad to acquire
sole control of Western contemplated its disappearance  as an inde-
pendent and neutral connection  for 15 other carriers, that it would
be  extremely  harmful  to other carriers  and  that it would  result
in termination  of the employment  of most of Western's 24 execu-
tives and  225  other employees.  The  Commission  concluded  that
the acquisition and plan of operation by the Santa Fe and Pennsyl-
vania, subject to stated conditions,  vas within the scope of § 5 (2)
of the Act, that the proposed terms and conditions  were just and
reasonable,  and that the transaction would  be consistent with the
public interest.  It,  therefore, approved the Santa Fe-Pennsylvania
application,  dismissed  the  Minneapolis. application,  and  denied
applications by several intervening railroads for permission to par-
ticipate in the acquisition of Western's stock.  The District Court
sustained the Commission's order.  Held: The judgment is affirmed.
Pp. 176-194.
*Together with No. 27, South Dakota et al. v. United States et al.,
and No. 28, Minnesota et al. v.  United States et al., also on appeals
from the same Court.

NEW PAGE

174  OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Syllabus.  361 U. S.
1. The  record  shows  that the  Commission's  finding  that  con-
tinued operation of Western as a "separate and independent carrier"
was required by the "public  interest" did not deprive the Minne-
apolis & St. Louis  Railroad  of  "fair  comparative  consideration"
and that it was made  after  full and fair  consideration;  and the
District Court did not err in so holding.  Pp. 184-185.
2. Notwithstanding  appellants'  contention  that  acquisition  of
Western by Santa  Fe and  Pennsylvania would  create  a combina-
tion in restraint  of commerce  in violation  of § 1 of the  Sherman
Act and would lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in
violation  of  § 7 of  the  Clayton  Act,  the  record  shows  that the
Commission  fully  estimated  the  scope  and  appraised  the  effects
of any  resulting  curtailment  of  competition  and  concluded  that
the proposed  acquisition  and  plan  of operation  would  not  result
in any significant  lessening of competition;  and this determination
rests upon  adequate  findings, supported by  substantial  evidence,
and is well within the limits of the Commission's discretion under
the Act.  Pp. 185-189.
(a)  Although  § 5 (11)  does not authorize  the Commission to
"ignore"  the antitrust  laws, it does  authorize the Commission  to
approve  acquisitions  which  might  otherwise violate  the antitrust
laws, if it finds that such acquisitions are in the public interest, and,
upon approval  of the acquisitions  by the Commission,  it relieves
the acquiring carriers from the operation of the antitrust laws.  Pp.
185-187.
(b)  As  respects railroad  acquisitions, the .Commission  is not
so bound by the antitrust laws that it must permit them to overbear
what  it finds  to  be  in the  public  interest, and  the wisdom  and
experience of the Commission,  not of the courts, must determine
whether the proposed acquisition is in the public interest.  Pp. 187-
188.
(c) The Commission gave extensive consideration to this con-
tention 'of  appellants  and  determined  that  the  acquisition  of
Western by Santa Fe and Pennsylvania and their plan of operation
of Western would  not  result in any significant  lessening  of com-
petition; and that determination was baced upon adequate findings,
supported by substantial  evidence,  and was well within the limits
of the Commission's  discretion under the Act.  Pp. 188-189.
3. Notwithstanding  appellants'  contention  that  Pennsylvania
actually  contracted  to purchase  50%  of  Western's  stock from  a
trust  company  which had  four common  directors  with Pennsyl-
vania  and  that such -purchase would  violate  § 10  of the Clayton

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R1. CO.  v.  U.  S. 175
173  Syllabus.
Act, the Commission's action in approving Pennsylvania's  acquisi-
tion of the stock, after fully considering all factors bearing thereon,
did not exceed  the statutory limits of the Commission's discretion.
Pp. 189-191.
4. Whether or not § 5 (11)  operates only in futuro is immaterial
in this case,  since the  existing  contractual  arrangements  through
which  Pennsylvania asked authority  to acquire 50%  of Western's
stock looked entirely to the future.  Pp. 191-192.
5. Notwithstanding appellants" contention that the Commission
violated § 8 (b)  of the Administrative Procedure Act by failing to
make findings  which, they think, were compelled by the evidence,
the record discloses that the Commission made adequate subsidiary
findings  upon all  material  issues and  made the  ultimate findings
required by § 5 (2), that they support the Commission's order and
that they are,  in  turn, supported  by  substantial  evidence.  Pp.
192-194.
6. The  District  Court  fairly considered  and, decided  all of  the
issues raised by appellants, accorded to them a full and fair judicial
review, and reached a right result.  P. 194.
165 F. Supp. 893, affirmed.
Max Swiren and Harold J. Soderberg argued the cause
for appellants..  Max Swiren, John G. Dorsey and Richard
Musenbrock were  on  the  brief  for  the  Minneapolis  &
St.  Louis  Railway  Co.,  appellant  in  No.  12;  Parnell
Donohue, Attorney  General  of  South  Dakota,  Herman
L.  Bode,  Assistant  Attorney  General,  and  Ernest W.
Stephens for the State of South Dakota et al., appellants
in No. 27;  and Miles-L  ord, Attorney  General of Minne-
sota, and Harold J.  Soderberg, Assistant Attorney  Gen-
eral, for the State of Minnesota et al., appellants in No. 28.
Robert W. Ginnane and Starr Thomas argued the cause
for appellees.  Solicitor GeneralR  ankin, Acting Assistant
Attorney General Bicks, Richard A. Solomon, Robert W.
Ginnane and B. Franklin Taylor, Jr. were on the brief for
the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commis-
sion;  Grenville Beardsley, Attorney  General  of  Illinois,
and  Harry R.  Begley, Special  Assistant  Attorney  Gen-
525554 0-60-17

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion  of the Court.  361 U. S.
eral, for the State of Illinois; Starr Thomas, CarlE  . Bagge
and  Edwin A.  Lucas for the  Atchison,  Topeka & Santa
Fe Railway  Co. et al.; and Robert H. Walker for certain
municipalities and shippers et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE  WHITTAKER  delivered  the opinion of the
Court.
These  appeals  present  questions  arising  out of  rival
applications  by  several  rail  carriers  to  the  Interstate
Commerce  Commission  under  § 5 (2)  of  the  Interstate
Commerce Act .for authority to acquire control of Toledo,
Peoria & Western Railroad Company.
1 Section 5 (2)  of the Interstate Commerce  Act  (24  Stat. 380, as
amended,  54  Stat. 905, 49  U. S.  C. § 5 (2))  provides, in pertinent
part,  that:
"(a)  It  shall  be lawful,  with  the approval  and  authorization  of
the Commission, as provided in subdivision  (b)  of this paragraph-
"(i)  for  . . . two  or more  carriers  jointly, to  acquire  control  of
another through  ownership  of its stock  or otherwise  ....
"(b)  Whenever a transaction is proposed under subdivision  (a)  of
this paragraph, the carrier  . . . seeking authority therefor shall pre-
sent an application to the Commission, and thereupon the Commission
shall notify . . . [designated parties],  and shall afford reasonable op-
portunity for interested parties to be heard.  If the Commission shall
consider it necessary in order to determine whether the findings speci-
fied  below may  properly  be  made, it shall  set said application  for
public hearing;  and a public hearing shall be held in all cases where
carriers  by railroad  are involved  unless the Commission  determines
that a public hearing is not necessary in the public interest.  If the
Commission finds that, subject to such terms and conditions and such
modifications  as it shall find to be just and reasonable,  the proposed
transaction is within the scope of subdivision  (a)  of this paragraph
and will  be consistent with the public interest, it shall enter an order
approving  and  authorizing  such  transaction,  upon  the  terms  and
conditions,  and  with  the  modifications,  so  found  to  be  just  and
reasonable  . . ..
"(c)  In  passing upon any  proposed  transaction  under the provi-
sions  of  this paragraph,  the  Commission  shall  give  weight  to  the

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S. 177
173  Opinion  of the Court.
"Western"  is  an  independent,  short-line  "bridge  car-
rier"2  of  through  east-west  traffic  by-passing  the  con-
gested Chicago gateway.  Its line is about 234 miles long,
extending from its connection with the Pennsylvania Rail-
road Company  ("Pennsylvania")  at Effner,  on  the Illi-
nois-Indiana  state line, westward,  through  Peoria, to its
connection with the main line of the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Railway Company ("Santa Fe") at Lomax, Illi-
nois, and tl~ence southwesterly a short distance to Keokuk,
Iowa.  Its headquarters,  shops and yards are located in
East Peoria  where  it  has 24 executives  and where,  and
elsewhere along its line, it has about 225 other employees.
It  has connections  for the interchange of traffic  with 16
railroads, the principal ones being with the Pennsylvania
at Effner,-with the Santa Fe at Lonax, and with the New
York, Chicago  & St. Louis Railroad  Company  ("Nickel
Plate"),  the  Illinois  Terminal  Railroad  Company,  the
following  considerations,  among  others:  (1)  The  effect  of the  pro-
posed transaction upon adequate transportation service to the public:
(2)  the effect  upon the  public interest  of the inclusion,  or failure
to include, other railroads in the territory involved in the  proposed
transaction;  (3)  the total fixed  charges resulting from the proposed
transaction;  and  (4)  the interest  of the  carrier employees affected.
"(d)  The Commission  shall have authority  in the case of a pro-
posed transaction  under this paragraph  involving a railroad or rail-
roads, as a prerequisite  to its approval  of the proposed  transaction,
to  require,  upon  equitable terms,  the  inclusion  of  another  railroad
or  other railroads  in the  territory  involved,  upon  petition  by such
railroad  or  railroads  requesting  such  inclusion,  and  upon  a  finding
that such  inclusion is consistent  with  the public interest.
"f) As a condition  of its approval,  under this  paragraph, of any
transaction  involving a carrier or carriers by railroad subject  to the
provisions  of  this chapter,  the Commission shall  require  a  fair and
equitable  arrangement  to  protect the  interests of  the  railroad  em-
ployees affected.  . ....
2 The term  "bridge  carrier"  appears  to mean a  short-line  carrier
which transports through traffic from one long-line carrier to another.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of  the Court.  361 U. S.
Chicago,  Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company ("Bur-
lington")  and the Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway Com-
pany  ("Minneapolis")  at Peoria.  Its interchange  con-
nections with the other 10 railroads are at 17 other towns
along its line.
Western has outstanding 90,000 shares of common cap-
ital stock, 82%  of which  is owned by the  testamentary
trustees of the estate of George P. McNear-Wilmington
Trust  Company  and  Guy  Gladson-and  the remaining
18% is owned by members of the McNear family, a bank
and  the  president  of  Western.  In  1954,  the  trustees
determined  to sell  their Western  stock, and rival efforts
were commenced by Minneapolis, on the one hand, and by
the  Santa Fe  and  Pennsylvania,  on  the other hand,  to
purchase  it.  (Four  of  Wilmington  Trust  Company's
directors  were  also  directors  of  Pennsylvania.)  Those
negotiations  culminated in a contract  between  the trus-
tees and the Santa Fe, dated. May 26, 1955, providing for
the sale by  the former and purchase by the latter of the
stock at  a price  of $135  per share,  subject to the Com-
mission's  approval.'  Soon  afterward,  like  agreements
-During  the  negotiations,  Minneapolis  first  offered  $69.50,  and
later $80, per share  for the stock.  On April  15,  1955, the Santa Fe
and Pennsylvania each obtained letter commitments from the trustees
for the sale to each of them of 26% of the Western  stock at a price
of $100  per share.  (Near the same  time  the Rock  Island  made a
like offer to the trustees for 26% of the Western stock, but that offer
was not accepted.)  But a dispute arose-and apparently still exists
between the trustees and Pennsylvania-with  respect to the validity
of those  commitments.  Thereupon,  Minneapolis offered the trustees
$133  per share for the Western stock, but that offer was not accepted,
and on May 26, 1955, the Santa Fe, acting, as the Commission found,
"on  behalf  of that  carrier alone,"  agreed  with  the  trustees  for  the
sale  by  the  latter and  purchase  by  the former  of all  the Western
stock  held  by the trustees  at a price  of $135  per  share, and  those
parties on that date entered into a contract, accordingly, subject to
approval of the  Commission.

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U. S.  179
173  Opinion of the Court.
were  made  by  the  Santa  Fe  with  the  holders  of  the
remaining 18%  of the Western stock.
On June 28, 1955, the Santa Fe entered into a contract
to  sell to  the Pennsylvania  Company,  a  wholly owned
subsidiary of Pennsylvania, 50o of the outstanding cap-
ital  stock  of  Western  at  $135  per  share,4  subject  to
approval of the Commission.
On  July  8,  1955,  the  Santa  Fe  and  Pennsylvania
Company  and  its  parent,  Pennsylvania,  applied  to  the
Commission  under  § 5 (2)  of  the  Act5  for  approval  of
4 The  contract  of June  28,  1955,  between  the Santa  Fe  and the
Pennsylvania  Company  provided  that it was  without  prejudice  to
any  claims, causes of action or rights which Pennsylvania may have
against the trustees of the McNear estate with respect to the letter
commitment of April 15, 1955, for the sale by the trustees to Pennsyl-
vania of 26%  of the Western stock;  and that, in the event Pennsyl-
vania should acquire from the trustees, under that letter commitment,
all or any part of such shares, the obligation of the Santa Fe under
the contract to  sell  Western  shares to  the Pennsylvania  Company
was to be reduced accordingly.  It  appears  that litigation was then,
and  is  yet,  pending  by Pennsylvania  against  the trustees  for  the
enforcement of the letter commitment  of April 15,  1955.
The contract also contained a covenant which, in essence, provided
that  (1)  Western  "will  continue to be  operated  as a separate  and
independent  carrier with  responsible management  located  along its
lines in order to preserve  to shippers  and communities  the present
direct access  to  its officials,"  (2)  that Western's  properties  will  be
maintained and improved,  (3)  that Western "will  continue to main-
tain  its own  solicitation  forces  and will  be  entirely  free  to  solicit
traffic  in  such  manner as  best  to serve  the interests  of"  Western,
(4)  that all "existing routes and channels of trade via [Western]  will
be  maintained  and  kept open without  discrimination  between  con-
necting lines  of railroad,"  and  (5)  that the  Board of  Directors of
Western  shall  consist  of  11  members,  of  whom  one  shall  be  the
president of the company, two shall be officers of the Santa Fe, two
shall be  officers of the Pennsylvania Company, or Pennsylvania,  or
both, and the remaining six shall be prominent citizens not connected
with  either  of  the  parties  but  selected  by  them  through  mutual
agreement.
5 See note  1.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion  of the Court.  361 U.S.
those stock purchase agreements and the consequent joint
control  of  Western.  The  Minneapolis  intervened  and
objected  to  the  application,  as  did  also  the  States  of
Minnesota  and South  Dakota and  their respective  pub-
lic service regulatory conmissions.
Thereafter,  on  October  13,  1955,  the  Minneapolis
applied to the Commission, under tWe same section of the
Act,  for  authority  to  acquire  sole  control  of  Western,
expressing  its  willingness  to  enter  into  contracts  vith
Western's stockholders to purchase their stock at the same
price  and on the same terms as set forth in their existing
contracts with the Santa Fe.  The Santa Fe, the Pennsyl-
vania Company ,and Pennsylvania intervened in the latter
proceeding and objected  to the Minneapolis  application.
On  motion  of  Minneapolis,  the  Commission  consoli-
dated the two proceedings.  Thereafter, seven other rail-
roads having interchange connections with Western's line
intervened.  Two of them sought authority, at all events,'
and  two  others  of them  sought authority, under  stated
conditions,'  to participate,  under  § 5 (2) (d)  of  the Act,
6 The New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company  ("Nickel
Plate")  and the Chicago,  Rock Island & Pacific  Railroad Company
("Rock  Island")  sought  authority,  under .§5  (2) (d)  of  the  Act
(see  note  1),  to  be  included  in the-acquisition  of  Western's  stock
on an  equal basis with the successful applicant  or applicants.
7 The Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company ("Burling-
ton")'  and  the  Wabash  Railroad  Company. ("Wabash")  did  not
object  to approval  of  the Santa  Fe Pennsylvania application,  pro-
vided the order required continuation of present routes and channels
of trade via existing junctions and gateways and of all existing traffic
and  operating  relations  and  arrangements,  but  they asked,  in  the
event  any  railroad  other  than  the Santa  Fe and  Pennsylvania  be
authorized to acquire an interest in Western's stock, that they, too,
be authorized to participate  therein to the same extent as any such
other railroad.
The Illinois  Central  Railroad  Company  ("Illinois  Central"),  the
Gulf, Mobile  & Ohio Railroad Company  ("Gulf")  and the Chicago
& North Western Railway Company  ("North Western")  asked that,

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  181
173  Opinion of  the Court.
in the acquisition of the Western stock on an equal basis
with  the successful applicant.  The State of Illinois,  18
cities or towns and seven chambers  of commerce located
on or along  Western's line, two  labor organizations  rep-
resenting  Western's  employees,  and  a  large  number  of
shippers over Western's line, intervened in support of the
Santa  Fe-Pennsylvania application  and in opposition to
the Minneapolis  application.
After an extended consolidated hearing before him, the
Commission's  examiner iqsued  a proposed report recom-
mending  approval  of the  Santa Fe-Pennsylvania  appli-
cation  and  dismissal. of  the  Minneapolis  application.
Thereafter, upon exceptions, and briefs and arguments in
their  support, Division  4 of  the  Commission  issued  its
report.  It  was confronted,  as it said, with four alterna-
tive proposals,  (1)  for  authorization  of joint control of
Western  by' the  Santa  Fe  and  Pennsylvania,  (2)  for
authorization of sole control by the Minneapolis,  (3)  for
authorization of two other railroads, at all events, and of
two more railroads, under stated conditions, to participate
in  the acquisition of the Western stock on an equal basis
with  the  successful  applicant,8  and  (4)  denial  of  both
applications.
The  Commission  observed  that  "[t]hese  proceedings
represent a new and more complicated phase in the admin-
istration of section 5, since  [they involve]  2 applications
for authority to control the same property, and petitions
by. 4 other carriers  for inclusion  in the transaction under
varying circumstances."  It recognized that, under § 5 (2)
if either application be approved, the order be conditioned to require
the maintenance of all routes and channels of trade via existing gate-
ways.  The Monon  Railroad  Company asked  that  if the Santa  Fe-
Pennsylvania application  be  approved,  the order contain a  require-
ment that Pennsylvania shall grant to it certain trackage rights, and,
if not done, that the Santa Fe-Pennsylvania  application be denied.
8 See notes 6 and 7.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion  of the  Court.  361 U. S.
of  the Act  and  the  National  Transportation  Policy,'  it
was required to "weigh  whether each  application is con-
sistent with the public interest, with or without inclusion
of other railroads, considering not only other intervening
petitioners seeking such inclusion but also the other appli-
cant and nonparticipating railroads as well."  It thought
that the burden of proof was "most heavy for an applicant
in  a proceeding like this, because it must not only over-
balance the claims of those seeking to share in the control
but also of those seeking  to exclude it from the transac-
tion."  It  conceived  it  to  be  its  duty,  under  the  Act
and the National  Transportation  Policy, to  "arrive  at a
standard of  public interest  and determine  which  of  the
various plans of control most nearly approximates it."
The  Commissioil  -found  that -the Santa  Fe-Pennsyl-
vania plan contemplates  that Western  "will continue to
be  operated  as  a separate  and independent  carrier  with
responsible management  located along its lines";  that it
"will  continue to maintain its own solicitation forces and
will be entirely free to solicit traffic in such manner as best
tW serve the interests of the Western,"  and that all "exist-
ing routes and channels of trade via the Western will be
maintained and-kept open without discrimination between
connecting  lines  of  railroad."  It found,  on  the  other
hand, that the Minneapolis plan "unequivocally contem-
plates the disappearance of the Western as an independent
and  neutral  connection  for  the  other  15  carriers  with
which it presently works";  that "[f]or  all practical  pur-
poses the Western  would be integrated, consolidated,  and
merged into the Minneapolis.for ownership, management,
and  operation";  that  features  of  the Minneapolis  plan
"would  be  extremely  harmful  to  other  cdrriers";  that
Western's  headquarters  office  at Peoria  would be elimi-
nated,  leaving  only a  trainmaster  and a  roadmaster  at
94 9 U. S. C., n.- preceding § 1, 54 Stat. 899.

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  183
173  Opinion of  the  CoUrt.
that point, and that the employment of most of Western's-
24 executives and 225 other employees would be severed.
The Commission further found that "[o] nly the Minne-
apolis and its supporting interveners, the States of Minne-
sota and South Dakota, advocate the disappearance of the
Western  as  a  separate  and  independent  operating  car-
rier," and that all other parties to, and intervenors in, the
proceedings  "insist  that  the  separate  and  independent
operation of the Western under its present local manage-
ment  is  a  public  necessity."  It  then  found  that  the
"[p] ublic interest demands that the present policies of the
Western in all respects be continued."  It thereupon made
the ultimate  finding, required  by § 5 (2)  (b)  of the Act,
that the acquisition' and plan  of operation  by the Santa
Fe  and  Pennsylvania,  subject  to  stated  conditions,  was
"within the scope of section 5 (2)  of the Interstate Com-
merce  Act, as  amended;  that the  terms  and  conditions
proposed  [by them] are just and reasonable, and that the
transaction  will be consistent  with the public  interest."
The  Commission  then  entered  its order  approving  the
SantaFe-Pennsylvania  application,  dismissing the Min-
neapolis application, and denying the petitions of the sev-
eral intervening railroads which  sought to participate in
the acquisition  of the Western stock.  295  I. C. C. 523.
Thereafter, Minneapolis petitioned the whole Commis-
sion  for  a  reconsideration,  and  alternatively  requested
that, if the approval of the Santa Fe-Pennsylvania appli-
cation  be permitted to stand, it be authorized  to partici-
pate  equally  with  those  railroads  in  the  purchase  of
Western's stock  on the same  terms.  That petition was
denied.
Minneapolis  then timely filed a complaint in the Dis-
trict Court for Minnesota against the United States and
the Interstate Commerce Commission  to vacate the Com-
mission's  order.  The  States  of  Minnesota  and  South
Dakota  and  their  respective  regulatory  commissions,

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959..
Opinion of  the Court.  361 U. S.
being interested in strengthening the Minneapolis, which
operates  in  those  States,  intervened  in  support  of  the
complaint.  The  defendants answered,  asserting the full
legality  of the Commission's  order.  The Santa Fe, the
Pennsylvania,  the Pennsylvania  Company,  the State of
Illinois, the 18 cities and seven chambers of commerce and
the numerous shippers  who  were  intervenors before  the
Commission,  intervened  in opposition  to  the complaint.
The Nickel Plate intervened,  complaining that the Com-
mission had improperly  denied its request to participate
in the purchase of the Western stock.
A three-judge  court  vas convened  and, after hearing,
rendered  its opinion  and judgment  sustaining the Com-
mission's order.  165 F. Supp. 893.  On separate appeals
by the Minneapolis, the State of Minnesota and its regu-
latory commission, and the State of South Dakota and its
regulatory commission,  the case was brought here and we
noted probable jurisdiction.  359 U. S. 933.  All of those
who were defendants and intervenors in opposition to the
complaint in the District Court, except the Nickel Plate,
are appellees in this Court.
Minneapolis, supported by the States of Minnesota and
South  Dakota;  contends,  first,  that  the  Commission
improperly adopted at the outset of its report the standard
of  "separate  and independent  management"  of Western
as the criterion governing the comparative merits of the
rival plans, which  was  antithetic to its application,  and
thereby  deprived it of  "fair comparative  consideration,"
and  that  the  District  Court  erred  in. approving  the
Commission's action.
The record does not support that contention.  Rather,
it shows  that the Commission's  governing  standard was
the "public interest," although it ultimately did find that
the public interest would be best served by Western's con-
tinued operation as a "separate and independent carrier."
We believe  that the recited findings show that the Coin-

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R. CO.  v.  U. S.  185
173  Opinion of the Court.
mission carefully  "weighed"  and considered "each  appli-
cation" in its labors td determine which, if either, of them
was "consistent with the public interest."  Its subsidiary
findings  (a)  that the  Minneapolis  plan  "unequivocally
contemplates  the  disappearance  of  the  Western  as  an
independent and neutral connection  for the other 15 car-
riers  with  which  it presently  works,"  (b)  that certain
features  of  the  Minneapolis  plan  "would  be extremely
harmful to other carriers,"  (c)  that the Minneapolis plan
contemplates the elimination  of Western's office and the
separation of its employees, and  (d)  that numerous wit-
nesses insisted "that the separate and independent opera-
tion of the Western under its present local management is
a public necessity,"  fully support its conclusional finding
that  the  "[p]ublic  interest  demands  that  the  present
policies  of  the  Western  in  all  respects  be  continued."-
That finding, though antithetic to Minneapolis'  applica-
tion,  did  not deprive  it of  "fair  comparative  considera-
tion,"  but, on the contrary, it seems to us, was made by
the Commission after full and fair consideration,  and the
District Court did not err in so holding.
Appellants'  principal  contention  appears  to  be  that
acquisition of control of Western by Santa Fe and Penn-
sylvania will  create  a combination  in  restraint of  com-
merce  in violation  of  § 1 of the Sherman'Act  "oa nd will
lessen competition  or tend to create a monopoly in viola-
tion of § 7 of the Clayton Act,11 and that the Commission's
approval of their application was an abuse of power.  ,
On  their face  these contentions  would  seem to run in
the teeth of the language  and purpose of  § 5 (11)  of the
Interstate  Commerce  Act.  That  section,  in  substance,
provides  that  "The authority conferred  by  this  section
shall be -exclusive and plenary, and any .carrier or corpora-
15 U. S. C. § 1, 26 Stat. 209
10 
"15  U. S. C. § 18, 38 Stat. 731.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion  of the Court.  361 U. S.
tion  participating  in  .. .any  transaction  approved  by
the Commission thereunder, shall have full power  ...to
carry such transaction into effect and to own and operate
any  properties  and  exercise  any  control  or  franchises
acquired  through  said  transaction  . . . and  any  car-
riers  . . . participating  in  a  transaction  approved  or
authorized  under  the provisions  of this section  shall  be
and  they are  hereby relieved from  the  operation  of the
antitrust laws and of all other restraints, limitations, and
prohibitions  of law  ...insofar  as may be necessary  to
enable [it] to carry into effect the transaction so approved
or provided  for in accordance  with the terms and condi-
tions, if any, imposed by the Commission,  and to  hold,
maintain,  and  operate  any  properties  and  exercise  any
control or franchises  acquired through such transaction."
24  Stat.  380,  as  amended,  54  Stat.  908,  49  U.  S.  C.
§5,( 11).
Section 5 (11)  is both a  more recent and a more spe-
cific  expression  of  congressional  policy  than  § 1 of the
Sherman  Act  and § 7 of  the Clayton  Act,  and in  terms
relieves the acquiring carrier, upon approval by the Com-
mission of the acquisition, "from the operation of the anti-
trust laws  .. . ."  Although § 5 (11)  does not authorize
the Commission  to "ignore"  the antitrust laws, McLean
Trucking Co. v. United States, 321 U. S.6 7, 80, there can
be  "little doubt  that the Commission  is not to measure
proposals for. [acquisitions]  by the standards of the anti-
trust laws."  321 U. S., at 85-86.  The problem is one of
accommodation  of  § 5 (2)  anq  the  antitrust legislation.
The Comission remains obligated to "estimate the scope
and appraise the effects of the curtailment of competition
which will result from the proposed [acquisition]  and con-
sider them along with the advantages of improved service
[and other matters in  the public  interest]  to determine
whether  the  [acquisition]  will assist in  effectuating  the
over-all transportation  policy."  321 U. S., at 87.

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST. LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  187
173  Opinion of  the  Court.
Even though such acquisitions might otherwise violate
the antitrust laws, Congress has authorized the Commis-
sion  to approve  them, if it finds  they are  in the public
interest, "because it recognized that in some circumstances
they  were  appropriate  for  effectuation  of  the  national
transportation  policy.  It  was informed  that this policy
would be  furthered by 'encouraging  the organization  of
stronger units' in the ....  industry.  And in authorizing
those  [acquisitions]  it did not import the general policies
of the anti-trust laws as a measure of their permissibility.
It  in terms relieved participants in appropriate  [acquisi-
tions]  from the requirements  of  those  laws.  § 5 (11)."
321 U. S., at 85.  It  must be presumed that, in  enacting
this legislation,  Congress  took  account  of  the  fact  that
railroads are subject to strict regulation  and supervision.
"Against  this background,  no other inference is  possible
but  that, as  a  factor  in  determining  the  propriety  of
[railroad  acquisitions]  '.he  preservation  of  competition
among carriers, although still a value, is significant chiefly
as  it  aids  in  the  attainment  of  the  objectives  of  the
national transportation policy."  321 U. S.,  at 85-86.
As respects railroad acquisitions, the Coinmission is not
so bound by the antitrust laws that it must permit them
to overbear  what it finds  to be in  "the  public  interest."
A contrary view would, in effect, permit the (innhi:ionl
to  authorize  only  those  acquisitions  which  would  not
offend  those laws.  "As has been said, this would render
meaningless  the exemption  relieving the partieipant  in  ".
properly approved  [acquisition]  of  the  requircmoeifs  of
those laws  . . . ."  321  U. S., at 86.  Resolution  of the
conflicting  considerations  "is  a  complex  task  which
requires extensive facilities, expert judgment and consid-
erable knowledge  of  the  transportation  industry.  Con-
gress left that task to the Commission  'to the end that the
wisdom and experience  of that Commission  may be  used
not Only in connection  with this form of transportation,

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of the Court.  361 U. S.
but in its coordination of all other forms.'  79 Cong. Rec.
12207.  'The wisdom and experience of that commission,'
not of the courts, must determine whether the proposed
[acquisition]  is  'consistent  with  the  public  interest.'
Cf. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central
R. Co., 215 U. S. 452; Pennsylvania Co. v. United States,
236 U. S. 351; United States v. Chicago Heights Trucking
Co., 310 U. S.  344;  Purcell v.  United States, 315 U. S.
381."  321 U. S., at 87-88.
Here,  the Commission gave extensive  consideration  to
the anti-competitive contentions advanced by appellants,
devoting more than five pages of its report to that matter.
It  found  that "[a]ll  the carriers  endeavoring  to partici-
pate in its control are in competition with Western"; that
the "important thing is not whether there is possibility of
competition,  but whether there is probability of existing
or potential competition being diminished or strangled by
the' Western  under the control of  the Santa  Fe and  the
Pennsylvania."  After an extended analysis of the com-
plex facts and conflicting evidence, the Commission found
that control of Western by the Santa Fe and Pennsylvania
would  not result in any significant  lessening of competi-
tion.  It  pointed to the fact that although the Santa Fe's
"long haul" is to Chicago and the Pennsylvania's "next to
longest haul"  is  also  to  Chicago  (its longest haul being
to St. Louis)  the Santa Fe has agreed,  and is bound, "to
place Lomax on a parity with Chicago from. a solicitation
standpoint,  and  . . . the  Pennsylvania  will  recognize
Effner as one of its principal interchanges along with Chi-
cago and St. Louis";  that "there may be some diversion
of  traffic,  but  such  diversion  would  not  jeopardize  the
maintenance  of  adequate  transportation  service  by the
objecting intervening  carriers."
The Commission  also pointed to the fact that Western
had  been  in  a  prolonged  receivership  until  1927  when
George P. McNear acquired its stock at a receiver's  sale,

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S.  189
173  Opinion  of the Court.
Toledo, P. & W. R. Co. Acquisition, 124 I. C. C. 181.  It
further found that Western's modern existence  began at
that time and, under the guidance of McNear,  was built
into a fine railroad; that since McNear's  death, in 1947,
the  present  management  has  continued,  with  much
success,  the policies  he  established.  Those  policies,  the
Commission  found,  were,  and  are,  "to  maintain  strict
neutrality between  all connections,  and to participate in
any  haul  of  traffic  no  matter  how  slight  [as  a  bridge]
carrier  through Peoria as an alternative route, bypassing
the congested  terminals  of Chicago  and  St. Louis,"  and
that those policies are to be continued under the Santa Fe-
Pennsylvania plan.
. We think it is clear from this summary of its analysis
and  findings  that  the  Commission  fully  estimated  the
scope and appraised the effects of any curtailment of com-
petition  which  might  result  from  the  acquisition  of
Western  by the  Santa  Fe and  Pennsylvania,  and, after
having done so, concluded that their acquisition  and plan
of operation of Western would not result in any significant
lessening  of competition.  Congress has left the  task of
making that determination  to the wisdom and experience
of the Commission.  The determination it has made rests
upon adequate findings which are, in turn, supported by
substantial evidence  and is  well  within  the  limits of its
discretion  under  the Act.
Appellants  argue that the Pennsylvania,  in  actuality,
contracted  to  purchase  507  of the  Western  stock  from
Wilmington  Trust Company, a co-.trustee of the McNear
trust, and that, since four persons were directors of both
companies,  that  proposed  stock  purchase  violates  § 10
of  the Clayton  Act;  that  the Commission  was  without
power  to  approve  it;  that, in  any  event, its  action  in
"condoning"  it was an abuse of power; and that the Dis-
trict Court, for those reasons also. erred in upholding the
Commission's order.

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of the  Court.  361 U. S.
The  Commission  found that the Santa Fe in  entering
into the contract of May 26, 1955, with the trustees of the
McNear trust was "acting on behalf of that carrier alone."
But even if we assume, for present purposes, that it was
acting as well for the Pennsylvania, the result must be the
same.  Section 10 of the Clayton Act prohibits a common
carrier engaged  in commerce  from having  "any dealings
in securities" -of more than  $50,000,  in the aggregate, in
any one year, "with another corporation,  ...when  the
said common  carrier  shall have upon  its board  of direc-
tors  ...any person who is at  the same  time a director
[of]  such other corporation  ..., except such purchases
[as]  shall  be  made  ...by  competitive  bidding  under
regulations  to  be  prescribed  by  [the]  Commission."
38 Stat. 734, 15  U. S. C. § 20.
Section  10 of  the  Clayton  Act  is,  of  course, an  anti-
trust law,'2 and much of what we have just said relative
to the problem of accommodation  of § 5 (2)  of the Inter-
state  Commerce  Act  and  the  antitrust  laws  is  equally
applicable  to  this  contention.  The  evident  purpose  of
§ 10  of  the  Clayton  Act  was  to  prohibit  a  corporation
from abusing a carrier  by palming off upon it securities.
supplies  and other  articles without  competitive  bidding
and at excessive prices through overreaching by, or other
misfeasance  of, common directors,  to the financial injury
of the carrier and the consequent impairment of its ability
to serve the public interest.3  But, even if this purchase
12 It is clear that § 10 of the Clayton Act is included  in the "anti-
trust laws"  referred  to in  § 5 (11)  of the  Interstate Commerce Act.
Section  1 of the Clayton  Act,  15 U. S. C.  (1952  ed.)  § 12,  provides
that " 'Anti-trust  laws,'  as used in sections  12,  13,  14-21,  and 22-27
of this title, includes sections  1-27 of this title."  Moreover,  § 5 (11)
voids  any ambiguity  by  including "all  other. restraints, limitations,
and prohibitions  of law,  Federal, State, or municipal."
The legislative history of § 10 of the Clayton Act, though meager,
support-  the  view  stated in  the text.  In  fact,  the language  of the
several  drafts  of  § 10,  together  with  the  types  of abuses  cited  in

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R.  CO.  v.  U.  S. 191
173  Opinion of  the Court.
of securities might, under other circumstances, violate § 10
of the Clayton Act, Congress, by § 5 (11)  of the Interstate
Commerce  Act,  has  authorized  the  Commission  to  ap-
prove it  if it finds that so doing is in the public interest.
And Congress has expressly said that, upon such approval,
the carrier  shall  be relieved  "from  the  operation  of  the
anti-trust laws  ....  . A contrary  view would, in effect,
permit the Commission to authorize only those stock pur-
chases which would not, in the absence of § 5 (11),  offend
the antitrust laws.  "As has been said, this would render
meaningless  the exemption  relieving  the participants  in
a  properly  approved  [acquisition]  of  the  requirements
of  those  laws  . . . ."  McLean Trucking Co. v.  United
States, supra, at 86.
Here,  the  Commission  fully  considered  the  contracts
under which the Pennsylvania proposes to.acquire a 50%
interest in the Western stock and all other factors bearing
on that matter and, after doing so, approved them.  That
action  by the  Commission  did  not exceed  the statutory
limits within which  Congress has confined its discretion.
Minneapolis  contends  that  § 5 (11)  operates  only  in
futuro  and  confers  "no  authority  to  purge  the  taint of
a transaction  illegal  at the  time it  was  brought  to  the
Commission."  Whether there is merit in that contention,
as a  legal  abstraction,  we need not decide,  for here  the
existing  contractual  arrangements  through  Which  Penn-
sylvania  asks  authority to  acquire  50%  of  the Western
stock look entirely to the future.  Neither  the stock sale
and purchase contract betweeb the trustees and the Santa
Fe nor the one  between  the Santa Fe and the Pennsyl-
support of its enactment, suggests strongly that the words "dealings in
securities"  were  intended  to  cover  only  a  carrier's  dealings  with
related persons  in  its own  securities.  See H. R. Rep. No. 627,  63d
Cong., 2d Sess.,  p. 3;  S. Rep. No. 698, 63d Cong.,  2d Sess., pp. 47-
48;  S. Doc.  No.  585, 63d Cong.,  2d Sess.,  pp. 8-9;  51  Cong.  Rec.
15943.
525554 0-60-18

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of the Court.  361 U. S.
vania Company is a consummated  transaction,  but each
is  expressly  subject  to,  and, will  become  effective  only
upon, approval by the Commission.  Apart from criminal
prosecutions,  with  which  we  are  not  here concerned,  it
seems plain that approval of an acquisition  by the Com-
mission  operates under  § 5 (11),  as that section says, to
relieve  the acquiring  carrier  "from  the operation  of the
antitrust  laws  .... 
Appellants next contend that the Commission violated
§ 8 (b)  of the Administrative Procedure Act.by failing to
make  findings which,  they think, were compelled by the
evidence.
There  can  be no doubt that  the Administrative  Pro-
cedure Act applies to proceedings before the Commission,
Riss & Co. v. United States, 341- U. S. 907, and see Chicago
& Eastern Illinois R. Co. v. United States, 344 U. S. 917.
The last sentence of § 8 (b) provides:
"All  [administrative]  decisions  .. .shall become  a
part of the record and include a statement of (1) find-
ings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis
therefor, upon all the material issues of fact, law, or
discretion  presented  on  the  record;  and  (2)  the
appropriate  rule,  order,  sanction,  relief,  or  denial
thereof." 14
Upon  the basis of  that language,  appellants  argue  that
the Commission  should have found that the price  which
the Santa Fe agreed to pay for the Western stock of $135
per share was excessive.  Though, the Commission made
no  express  findinig  upon  that  matter  it  did  discuss  it,
pointing  out that the certified value of  Western's prop-
erties for ratemaking purposes was more than $13,500,000;
that it has no outstanding preferred stock and is relatively
free  of debt;  that it has a fine earning record;  that the
transaction  was at arm's  length;  that Minneapolis  had
146 0 Stat. 242, 5 U. S. C. § 1007 (b).

NEW PAGE

MINNEAPOLIS  & ST.  LOUIS  R. CO.  v.  U.  S.  193
173  Opinion of the Court.
offered $133  per share for the stock within a few days of
the time when the Santa Fe contracted for its purchase at
$135  per share;  and that the Minneapolis sought author-
ity in  this proceeding to  acquire  the stock  at the  same
price.  The Commission concluded that if $135  per share
was a fair price for the one it was also for the other.
Upon  the  same  basis,  appellants also  argue  that the
Commission  should  have  found  that  the  Minneapolis
application was in the public interest in that its acquisi-
tion  of  Western  would  greatly  strengthen  both  Minne-
apolis  and  Western  by  eliminating  many  duplicating
facilities and by reducing operating expenses by more than
$1,770,000  annually.  The  Commission  did not make  a
specific finding upon that matter, but it  did give consid-
eration to it  and found that most of that saving-more
than  $1,300,000  annually-would  be  at the  expense  of
Western's  employees-a  matter  which,  because  of  the
express command  of clause 4 of  § 5 (2) (c)  of the Inter-
state Commerce  Act  (see  note  1),  it evidently  thought
was not consistent with the public interest.  Appellants
further  argue  that  the  Commission  should  have  found
that the Minneapolis  plan afforded adequate  protection
to  Western's  employees  by providing  for their  absorp-
tion  into  the  Minneapolis  as  attrition  among  its  own
employees permitted.  Again,  although  the Commission
made no specific finding upon that contention it did con-
sider  and  discuss  it, and  we  think  the  law required  no
more.
Appellants challenge  the Commission's failure to make
a number  of other subsidiary findings,  all of which have
been considered,  but we find that they relate to conten-
tions that are so collateral or immaterial that .the law did
not require specific  findings upon them.  By the express
terms  of  § 8 (b),  the  Commission  is  not  required  to
make subordinate findings on every collateral contention
advanced,  but  only  upon  those  issues  of  fact,  law,  or

NEW PAGE

OCTOBER  TERM,  1959.
Opinion of the Court.  361 U. S.
discretion  which  are  "material."  From a  thorough  ex-
amination of the record,  we are persuaded that the Com-
mission  has made  adequate  subsidiary  findings upon  all
material  issues and  has made  the  ultimate  findings  re-
quired  by  § 5 (2),  that they  support  the Commission's
order, and are, in turn, supported by substantial evidence.
Finally,  appellants  contend  that  the  District  Court,
because  of  inadequate  subsidiary  findings  by the  Com-
mission, was unable to, or at least did not, afford them a
proper judicial review, and merely "rubber stamped"  the
Comniission's  order.  Whether  or not we approve all  of
the reasons and legal conclusions of the District Court, it
is clear  that it fairly considered  and  decided  all of  the
issues raised by appellants,  accorded  to them a full and
fair judicial review, and reached a right result.  Accord-
ingly the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS dissents.

NEW PAGE