OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus
STATE  OIL  CO. v. KHAN  ET  AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 96-871.  Argued October 7, 1997-Decided November 4, 1997
Respondents' agreement to lease and operate a gas station obligated them
to buy gasoline from petitioner State Oil Company at a price equal to a
suggested retail price set by State Oil, less a specified profit margin;
required them to rebate any excess to State Oil if they charged custom-
ers more than the suggested price; and provided that any decrease due
to sales below the suggested price would reduce their margin.  After
they fell behind in their lease payments and State Oil commenced evic-
tion proceedings, respondents brought this suit in federal court, alleging
in part that, by preventing them from raising or lowering retail gas
prices, State Oil had violated § 1 of the Sherman Act.  The District
Court entered summary judgment for State Oil on this claim, but the
Seventh Circuit reversed on the basis of Albrecht v. Herald Co., 390
U. S. 145, 152-154, in which this Court held that vertical maximum price
fixing is a per se antitrust violation.  Although the Court of Appeals
characterized Albrecht as "unsound  when decided"  and "inconsistent
with later decisions," it felt constrained to follow that decision.
Held: Albrecht is overruled.  Pp. 10-22.
(a) Although most antitrust claims are analyzed under a "rule of rea-
son," under which the court reviews a number of relevant factors, see,
e. g., Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Soc., 457 U. S. 332, 342-343,
some types of restraints on trade have such predictable and pernicious
anticompetitive  effect,  and such  limited  potential for procompetitive
benefit, that they are deemed unlawful per se, see, e. g., Northern Pacific
R. Co. v. United States, 356 U. S. 1, 5.  A review of this Court's perti-
nent decisions is relevant in assessing the continuing validity of the
Albrecht per se rule.  See, e. g., Kiefer-Stewart Co. v. Joseph E. Sea-
gram & Sons, Inc., 340 U. S.2 11, 213 (maximum resale price fixing ille-
gal per se); United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & Co., 388 U. S. 365, 379-
380 (vertical nonprice restrictions illegal per se); Continental T V, Inc.
v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 47-49, 58-59 (overruling Schwinn).
A number of this Court's later decisions have hinted that Albrecht's
analytical underpinnings  were  substantially weakened  by  GTE Syl-
vania-see, e. g., Maricopa County, supra, at 348, n. 18; 324 Liquor
Corp. v. Duffy, 479 U.S. 335, 341-342; Atlantic Richfield Co. v.  USA
Petroleum Co., 495 U. S.3 28, 335, n. 5, 343, n. 13-and there is a consid-

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Syllabus
erable body of scholarship discussing the procompetitive effects of verti-
cal maximum price fixing.  Pp. 10-15.
(b) Informed by the foregoing decisions and scholarship, and guided
by the general view that the antitrust laws' primary purpose is to pro-
tect interbrand  competition, see, e. g.,  Business Electronics Corp. v.
Sharp Electronics Corp., 485 U. S. 717, 726, and that condemnation of
practices resulting in lower consumer prices is disfavored, Matsushita
Elec. Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S. 574,594, this Court
finds it difficult to maintain that vertically imposed maximum  prices
could harm consumers or competition to the extent necessary to justify
their per se invalidation.  Albrecht's theoretical justifications for its per
se rule-that vertical maximum price fixing could interfere with dealer
freedom, restrict dealers' ability to offer consumers essential or desired
services,  channel  distribution  through large  or specially  advantaged
dealers,  or disguise  minimum price fixing schemes-have been abun-
dantly  criticized  and  can  be  appropriately  recognized  and  punished
under the rule of reason.  Not only are they less serious than the Al-
brecht Court imagined, but other courts and antitrust scholars  have
noted that the per se rule could in fact exacerbate problems related to
the unrestrained exercise of market power by monopolist-dealers.  For
these reasons, and because Albrecht is irrelevant to ongoing Sherman
Act enforcement, see Copperweld Corp.v . Independence Tube Corp., 467
U. S.  752, 777, and n. 25, and there are apparently no cases in which
enforcement efforts have been directed solely against the conduct con-
demned in Albrecht, there is insufficient economic justification for the
per se rule.  Respondents' arguments in favor of the rule-that its elim-
ination should require persuasive, expert testimony establishing that it
has distorted the market, and that its retention is compelled by Toolson
v. New York Yankees, Inc., 346 U. S. 356, and Flood v. Kuhn, 407 U. S.
258-are unavailing.  Pp. 15-19.
(c) Albrecht does not deserve continuing respect under the doctrine
of stare decisis.  Stare decisis is not an inexorable command, particu-
larly in the area of antitrust law, where there is a competing interest in
recognizing and adapting to changed circumstances  and the lessons of
accumulated experience.  See, e. g., National Soc. of ProfessionalE  n-
gineers v. United States, 435 U.S. 679, 688.  Accordingly, this Court has
reconsidered its decisions construing the Sherman Act where, as here,
the theoretical underpinnings of those decisions are called into serious
question.  See, e. g., GTE Sylvania, supra.  Because Albrecht has been
widely criticized  since its inception, and the views underlying it have
been eroded by this Court's precedent, there is not much of that decision
to salvage.  See, e. g.,  Neal v.  United States, 516  U. S.  284, 295.  In

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Syllabus
overruling Albrecht, the Court does not hold that all vertical maximum
price fixing is per se lawful, but simply that it should be evaluated under
the rule  of reason, which  can effectively identify those situations in
which it amounts to anticompetitive  conduct.  The question  whether
respondents  are entitled  to recover damages in light of this Court's
overruling of Albrecht should be reviewed by the Court of Appeals in
the first instance.  Pp. 20-22.
93 F. 3d 1358, vacated and remanded.
O'CoNNoR, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.
John Baumgartnera rgued the cause for petitioner.  With
him on the briefs was Paul Kalinich.
Acting  Assistant Attorney  General Klein argued  the
cause  for the United  States  et al. as amici curiae urging
reversal.  With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor Gen-
eral Dellinger, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, Deputy
Assistant Attorney General Melamed, Edward C. DuMont,
Catherine G. O'Sullivan, and David Seidman.
Anthony S. DiVincenzo argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.
Pamela Jones Harbour,D  eputy Attorney General of New
York, argued the cause for the state parties as amici curiae
urging affirmance.  With her on  the brief were Dennis C.
Vacco, Attorney General of New York, Barbara Gott Billet,
Solicitor General, and Stephen D. Houck, Robert L. Hubbard,
Darrell M. Joseph, and  John A. Ioannou, Assistant Attor-
neys General, Bruce M. Botelho, Attorney General of Alaska,
and Daveed A. Schwartz, Assistant Attorney General, Grant
Woods, Attorney General  of Arizona,  Winston Bryant, At-
torney General of Arkansas, and J Jordan Abbott, Assistant
Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal, Attorney General of
Connecticut, M. Jane Brady, Attorney General of Delaware,
Robert A  Butterworth, Attorney  General  of Florida,  and
PatriciaA . Conners, Assistant Attorney General, Calvin E.
Halloway, Sr., Attorney General of Guam, Margery S. Bron-
ster, Attorney General  of Hawaii, Alan G. Lance, Attorney

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Counsel
General  of Idaho,  and Brett T  DeLange, Deputy Attorney
General,  Jim Ryan, Attorney General  of Illinois, and Bar-
bara Preiner,S olicitor General, Thomas J. Miller, Attorney
General of Iowa, and Elizabeth M. Osenbaugh, Solicitor Gen-
eral, CarlaJ  Stovall, Attorney General of Kansas, and John
W. Campbell, Deputy Attorney  General, J  Joseph Curran,
Jr., Attorney General of Maryland, and Ellen S. Cooper, As-
sistant Attorney General, Frank J Kelley, Attorney General
of Michigan,  and Fredrick H. Hoffecker, Hubert H. Hum-
phrey III, Attorney General of Minnesota, Mike Moore, At-
torney General  of Mississippi, and James F. Steel, Deputy
Attorney General, Joseph P. Mazurek, Attorney General  of
Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa, Attorney General  of Ne-
vada, Steven M. Houran, Acting Attorney General  of New
Hampshire, and Walter L. Maroney, Senior Assistant Attor-
ney General, Peter Verniero, Attorney General of New Jer-
sey, and Laurel A. Price, Deputy Attorney  General,  Tom
Udall, Attorney  General  of  New  Mexico,  and  Susan  G.
White, Assistant Attorney General, Michael F. Easley, At-
torney General of North Carolina, and K. D. Sturgis, Assist-
ant Attorney  General,  Heidi Heitkamp, Attorney  General
of North Dakota, and Laurie J Loveland, Solicitor General,
D. Michael Fisher, Attorney General  of Pennsylvania, and
James A. Donahue III, Acting Chief Deputy Attorney Gen-
eral,  Jeffrey B. Pine, Attorney  General  of Rhode  Island,
Mark Barnett, Attorney  General  of  South  Dakota, 'John
Knox Walkup, Attorney General  of Tennessee,  Michael E.
Moore, Solicitor General, and Dennis Garvey, Interim Dep-
uty Attorney General,  Dan Morales, Attorney  General  of
Texas,  Jorge Vega, First  Assistant Attorney  General,  and
Laquita A. Hamilton, Deputy Attorney General,  James S.
Gilmore III, Attorney  General  of  Virginia,  and  Frank
Seales, Jr., Senior Assistant Attorney General,  Christine 0.
Gregoire, Attorney General of Washington, and Jon P. Fer-
guson, Darrell V  McGraw, Jr., Attorney  General of West
Virginia, James E. Doyle, Attorney  General  of Wisconsin,

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
and  Kevin J  O'Connor, Assistant  Attorney  General,  and
William U. Hill, Attorney General of Wyoming.*
JUSTICE  O'CONNOR delivered the opinion of the Court.
Under § 1 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, as amended,
15 U. S. C. § 1, "[e]very contract, combination...,  or conspir-
acy, in restraint of trade" is illegal.  In Albrecht v. Herald
Co., 390 U. S. 145 (1968),  this Court held that vertical maxi-
mum price fixing is a per se  violation  of that statute.  In
this case, we are asked to reconsider that decision  in light
of subsequent  decisions  of this  Court.  We  conclude  that
Albrecht should be overruled.
I
Respondents, Barkat U. Khan and his corporation, entered
into  an  agreement  with petitioner,  State  Oil  Company, to
lease and operate a gas station and convenience store owned
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the American
Automobile Manufacturers Association et al. by Stephen M. Shapiro,R  oy
T Englert, Jr., Donald M. Falk, Phillip D. Brady, and Charles H. Lock-
wood II; for the American Petroleum Institute by Edwin M. Zimmerman,
Robert A  Long, Jr., G. William Frick, Harry M. Ng, and Douglas W.
Morris;f or the Business Roundtable by Thomas B. Leary and Robert C.
Weinbaum; and for the Newspaper Association of America et al. by Wil-
liam T Lifland, PatriciaF  arren,D  avid S. J  Brown, Rene P. Milam,
Peter C. Gould, Andrew Merdek, William T Garcia, CristinaL . Mendoza,
and George Freeman.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Association of the Bar of the
City of New York by Richard M. Steuer; for the Coalition for Fair Con-
sumer Pricing by Steven B. Feirman,B  arry M. Heller, H. Bret Lowell,
Philip F. Zeidman, and Stanley J  Adelman; for the Minnesota Service
Station and Convenience Store Association et al. by Gary E. Persiana nd
Paul E. Slater; for the National Association of ManufactureM by Mark
L. Davidson, Jan S. Amundson, and Quentin Riegel; for the National
Automobile  Dealers Association by Paul R. Norman; for the National
Beer Wholesalers Association, Inc., by Ernest Gellhorn, Donald I. Baker,
and W. Todd Miller; and for the Service Station Dealers of America by
Peter H. Gunst.

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
by  State  Oil.  The  agreement  provided  that  respondents
would obtain the station's gasoline supply from State Oil at
a price equal to a suggested retail price set by State Oil, less
a margin  of 3.25  cents per gallon. - -Under the agreement,
respondents could charge any amount for gasoline sold to the
station's customers, but if the price charged was higher than
State Oil's  suggested retail price, the excess  was to be re-
bated to State Oil.  Respondents  could sell gasoline for less
than State Oils suggested retail price, but any such decrease
would reduce their 3.25 cents-per-gallon  margin.
About a year after respondents began  operating the gas
station, they fell behind in lease payments.  State Oil then
gave notice of its intent to terminate the agreement and com-
menced  a state court proceeding  to evict respondents.  At
State Oil's request, the state court appointed a receiver  to
operate the gas station.  The receiver  operated the station
for  several  months without being  subject  to the price  re-
straints in respondents' agreement with State Oil.  Accord-
ing to respondents,  the receiver  obtained  an overall profit
margin in excess  of 3.25 cents  per gallon by lowering  the
price of regular-grade gasoline and raising the price of pre-
mium grades.
Respondents  sued State Oil in the United States District
Court for the Northern  District of Illinois, alleging in part
that State Oil had engaged in price fixing in violation of § 1
of the Sherman Act by preventing respondents from raising
or lowering retail gas prices.  According  to the complaint,
but for the agreement with State Oil, respondents could have
charged different prices based on the grades  of gasoline, in
the  same  way  that  the  receiver  had,  thereby  achieving
increased  sales and  profits.  State  Oil responded  that  the
agreement did not actually prevent respondents from setting
gasoline prices, and that, in substance, respondents did not
allege a violation of antitrust laws by their claim that State
Oil's suggested retail price was not optimal.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
The District Court found that the allegations in the com-
plaint did not state a per se violation of the Sherman  Act
because they did not establish the sort of "manifestly anti-
competitive implications or pernicious effect on competition"
that would justify per se prohibition  of State Oil's conduct.
App.  43-44.  Subsequently, in ruling  on  cross-motions  for
summary judgment, the  District Court concluded  that re-
spondents had failed to demonstrate antitrust injury or harm
to  competition.  App.  to Pet. for  Cert. 37a.  The  District
Court held that respondents had not shown that a difference
in gasoline pricing would have increased the station's sales;
nor had they shown that State Oil had market power or that
its pricing provisions affected competition in a relevant mar-
ket.  Id., at 37a, 40a.  Accordingly, the District  Court en-
tered summary judgment for State Oil on respondents' Sher-
man Act claim.  Id., at 40a.
The  Court of Appeals  for the Seventh  Circuit reversed.
93 F. 3d 1358 (1996).  The  court first noted that the agree-
ment between respondents and State Oil did indeed fix maxi-
mum gasoline prices by making it "worthless" for respond-
ents  to  exceed  the  suggested  retail prices.  Id.,  at  1360.
After reviewing legal and economic  aspects of price fixing,
the court concluded that State Oil's pricing scheme was a per
se antitrust violation under Albrecht v. Herald Co.,  supra.
Although  the  Court  of Appeals  characterized  Albrecht as
"unsound when  decided"  and "inconsistent  with later deci-
sions" of this Court, it felt constrained to follow that decision.
93 F. 3d, at 1363.  In light of Albrecht and Atlantic Richfield
Co. v. USA Petroleum Co., 495 U. S. 328 (1990) (ARCO), the
court found that respondents  could have suffered  antitrust
injury from not being able to adjust gasoline prices.
We granted certiorari to consider two questions, whether
State Oil's conduct constitutes a per se violation of the Sher-
man Act and  whether respondents  are  entitled to recover
damages based on that conduct.  519 U. S. 1107 (1997).

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
II
A
Although the Sherman Act, by its terms, prohibits every
agreement "in restraint of trade," this Court has long recog-
nized  that Congress  intended  to outlaw  only unreasonable
restraints.  See, e. g., Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical
Soc.,  457  U. S.  332, 342-343  (1982)  (citing United States v.
Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S. 505 (1898)).  As a consequence,
most antitrust claims are analyzed under a "rule of reason,"
according to which  the finder  of fact must decide  whether
the questioned practice imposes an unreasonable restraint on
competition, taking into account a variety of factors, includ-
ing specific information about the relevant business, its con-
dition before and  after the restraint was  imposed, and the
restraint's history, nature, and effect.  457 U. S., at 343, and
n. 13 (citing Board of Trade of Chicago v. United States, 246
U. S. 231, 238 (1918)).
Some types of restraints, however, have such predictable
and pernicious  anticompetitive  effect,  and  such limited po-
tential for procompetitive benefit, that they are deemed un-
lawful per se.  Northern Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 356
U. S. 1, 5 (1958).  Per se treatment is appropriate "[olnce ex-
perience with a particular kind of restraint enables the Court
to predict with confidence that the rule of reason will con-
demn it."  Maricopa County, supra, at 344; see also Broad-
cast Music, Inc. v. Columbia BroadcastingS ystem, Inc., 441
U. S. 1, 19, n. 33 (1979).  Thus, we have expressed reluctance
to adopt per se rules with regard to "restraints imposed in
the context of business relationships where the economic im-
pact of certain practices is not immediately obvious."  FTC
v. Indiana Federation of Dentists, 476  U. S. 447,  458-459
(1986).
A review of this Court's decisions leading up to and beyond
Albrecht is relevant to our assessment of the continuing va-
lidity of the per se rule established in Albrecht.  Beginning

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
with Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co.,
220 U. S. 373  (1911),  the Court recognized the illegality of
agreements under which manufacturers or suppliers set the
minimum resale prices to be charged by their distributors.
By 1940,  the Court broadly declared  all business combina-
tions "formed for the purpose and with the effect of raising,
depressing, fixing, pegging, or stabilizing the price of a com-
modity  in  interstate  or foreign  commerce"  illegal  per se.
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 223
(1940).  Accordingly,  the  Court  condemned  an  agreement
between two affiliated liquor distillers to limit the maximum
price  charged  by retailers in Kiefer-Stewart Co. v. Joseph
E. Seagram & Sons, Inc., 340  U. S. 211  (1951),  noting that
agreements to fix maximum prices, "no less than those to fix
minimum prices, cripple the freedom of traders and thereby
restrain  their ability to  sell in accordance  with  their  own
judgment."  Id., at 213.
In subsequent cases,  the Court's attention  turned to ar-
rangements through which suppliers imposed restrictions on
dealers with respect to matters other than resale price.  In
White Motor Co. v. United States, 372 U. S. 253 (1963),  the
Court considered the validity of a manufacturer's assignment
of exclusive territories to its distributors and dealers.  The
Court determined that too little was known about the com-
petitive impact of such vertical limitations to warrant treat-
ing them as per se unlawful.  Id., at 263.  Four years later,
in  United States v. Arnold, Schwinn & Co.,  388 U. S.  365
(1967), the Court reconsidered the status of exclusive dealer
territories and held that, upon the transfer of title to goods
to a distributor, a supplier's imposition of territorial restric-
tions  on  the  distributor  was  "so  obviously  destructive  of
competition"  as to constitute a per se violation of the Sher-
man Act.  Id., at 379.  In Schwinn, the Court acknowledged
that some vertical restrictions, such as the conferral of terri-
torial rights or franchises, could have procompetitive bene-
fits  by allowing  smaller  enterprises  to compete,  and  that

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
such restrictions might avert vertical integration in the dis-
tribution  process.  Id.,  at 379-380.  The  Court  drew  the
line, however, at permitting manufacturers to control prod-
uct marketing once  dominion over the goods had passed to
dealers.  Id., at 380.
Albrecht, decided the following Term, involved a newspa-
per publisher who had granted exclusive territories to inde-
pendent carriers  subject to their adherence  to a maximum
price on resale of the newspapers to the public.  Influenced
by  its  decisions  in  Socony-Vacuum,  Kiefer-Stewart, and
Schwinn, the Court concluded that it was per se unlawful for
the publisher to fix the maximum resale price  of its news-
papers.  390  U. S.,  at  152-154.  The  Court  acknowledged
that "[m]aximum  and minimum  price  fixing may  have dif-
ferent  consequences  in  many  situations,"  but nonetheless
condemned  maximum price fixing for "substituting the per-
haps  erroneous judgment  of a seller  for the forces  of the
competitive market."  Id., at 152.
Albrecht was  animated  in part by the fear  that vertical
maximum  price fixing could allow suppliers  to discriminate
against  certain  dealers,  restrict  the services  that  dealers
could  afford to offer customers,  or disguise minimum price
fixing schemes.  Id., at  152-153.  The  Court  rejected  the
notion (both on the record of that case and in the abstract)
that, because  the newspaper  publisher  "granted  exclusive
territories, a price ceiling was necessary to protect the public
from price gouging by dealers  who had monopoly power in
their own territories."  Id., at 153.
In a vigorous dissent, Justice Harlan asserted that the ma-
jority had erred in equating the effects of maximum and min-
imum price fixing.  Id., at 156-168.  Justice Harlan pointed
out that, because the majority was establishing a per se rule,
the proper inquiry was "not whether dictation of maximum
prices is ever illegal, but whether it is always illegal."  Id.,
at 165-166.  He  also faulted  the majority for  conclusively
listing  "certain  unfortunate  consequences  that  maximum

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
price dictation might have in other cases," even as it rejected
evidence  that  the publisher's  practice  of fixing  maximum
prices counteracted potentially anticompetitive actions by its
distributors.  Id., at  165.  Justice  Stewart  also  dissented,
asserting that the publisher's maximum price fixing scheme
should be  properly  viewed  as  promoting competition,  be-
cause it protected consumers from dealers such as Albrecht,
who, as "the  only person who could sell for home delivery
the city's only daily morning newspaper," was "a monopolist
within his own territory."  Id., at 168.
Nine years later, in Continental T V, Inc. v.  GTE Syl-
vania Inc., 433 U. S. 36 (1977), the Court overruled Schwinn,
thereby rejecting application of a per se rule in the context
of vertical nonprice restrictions.  The Court acknowledged
the principle of stare decisis, but explained that the need for
clarification in the law justified reconsideration  of Schwinn:
"Since its announcement, Schwinn has been the subject
of continuing  controversy  and  confusion,  both  in  the
scholarly journals and in the federal courts.  The great
weight of scholarly opinion has been critical of the deci-
sion, and a number of the federal courts confronted with
analogous vertical  restrictions  have sought to limit its
reach.  In our view, the experience of the past 10 years
should be brought to bear on this subject of considerable
commercial importance."  433 U. S., at 47-49 (footnotes
omitted).
The Court considered  the historical context  of Schwinn,
noting that Schwinn's per se rule against vertical nonprice
restrictions came only four years after the Court had refused
to endorse  a similar rule in White Motor Co.,  and that the
decision neither explained the "sudden change in position,"
nor referred  to the accepted  requirements for per se viola-
tions set forth in Northern Pacific R. Co.  433 U. S., at 51-
52.  The  Court then  reviewed  scholarly  works  supporting
the economic utility of vertical nonprice restraints.  See id.,

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
at 54-57 (citing, e. g.,  Posner, Antitrust Policy and the Su-
preme  Court: An  Analysis  of the  Restricted  Distribution,
Horizontal Merger and Potential Competition  Decisions, 75
Colum. L. Rev. 282 (1975); Preston, Restrictive Distribution
Arrangements:  Economic Analysis and Public Policy Stand-
ards,  30  Law  & Contemp.  Prob.  506  (1965)).  The  Court
concluded that, because  "departure  from the rule-of-reason
standard must be based upon demonstrable economic effect
rather than-as in Schwinn-upon formalistic line drawing,"
the appropriate  course would be  "to  return to the rule of
reason that governed vertical restrictions prior to Schwinn."
GTE Sylvania, supra, at 58-59.
In GTE Sylvania, the Court declined  to comment on Al-
brecht's per se treatment of vertical maximum price restric-
tions, noting that the issue "involve[d]  significantly different
questions  of analysis  and  policy."  433  U. S.,  at  51,  n.  18.
Subsequent  decisions  of the  Court, however,  have  hinted
that the  analytical  underpinnings  of  Albrecht were  sub-
stantially weakened by GTE Sylvania.  We noted in Mari-
copa County that  vertical  restraints  are  generally  more
defensible than horizontal restraints.  See 457 U. S., at 348,
n. 18.  And we explained in 324 Liquor Corp. v. Duffy, 479
U. S. 335, 341-342  (1987),  that decisions  such  as GTE Syl-
vania "recognize  the  possibility  that  a vertical  restraint
imposed by a single manufacturer or wholesaler may stimu-
late  interbrand  competition  even  as  it reduces  intrabrand
competition."
Most recently, in ARCO, 495 U. S.3 28 (1990), although Al-
brecht's continuing  validity  was  not  squarely  before  the
Court, some disfavor with that decision was signaled by our
statement that we would "assume, arguendo, that Albrecht
correctly held that vertical, maximum price fixing is subject
to the per se rule."  495  U. S.,  at 335, n. 5.  More  signifi-
cantly, we specifically  acknowledged that vertical maximum
price  fixing "may have procompetitive  interbrand effects,"
and pointed out that, in the wake  of GTE Sylvania, "[tihe

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
procompetitive  potential  of a  vertical  maximum  price  re-
straint is more evident..,  than it was when Albrecht was
decided,  because  exclusive  territorial  arrangements  and
other nonprice  restrictions were  unlawful per se in  1968."
495 U. S., at 343, n. 13 (citing several commentators identify-
ing procompetitive effects of vertical maximum price fixing,
including, e. g.,  P. Areeda  & H. Hovenkamp,  Antitrust Law
340.30b, p. 378, n. 24  (1988  Supp.); Blair & Harrison, Re-
thinking Antitrust Injury, 42 Vand. L. Rev. 1539, 1553 (1989);
Easterbrook, Maximum Price Fixing, 48 U. Chi. L. Rev. 886,
887-890  (1981)) (hereinafter Easterbrook).
B
Thus, our reconsideration of Albrecht's continuing validity
is informed by several of our decisions, as well as a consider-
able body of scholarship discussing the effects of vertical re-
straints.  Our  analysis  is also guided by our general  view
that the primary purpose of the antitrust laws is to protect
interbrand  competition.  See,  e. g.,  Business  Electronics
Corp. v. Sharp Electronics Corp., 485 U. S. 717, 726 (1988).
"Low prices," we have explained, "benefit consumers regard-
less of how those prices are set, and so long as they are above
predatory levels, they do not threaten competition."  ARCO,
supra, at 340.  Our interpretation of the Sherman Act also
incorporates  the notion that  condemnation  of practices  re-
sulting in lower  prices  to consumers  is  "especially  costly"
because "cutting prices in order to increase business often is
the very essence of competition."  Matsushita Elec. Indus-
trial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S.5 74, 594 (1986).
So informed, we find it difficult to maintain that vertically
imposed maximum prices could harm consumers or competi-
tion to the extent necessary to justify their per se invalida-
tion.  As Chief Judge Posner wrote for the Court of Appeals
in this case:
"As for maximum resale price fixing, unless the supplier
is a monopsonist he cannot squeeze his dealers' margins

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
below  a  competitive level; the attempt to do so would
just drive the dealers into the arms of a competing sup-
plier.  A supplier might, however, fix a maximum resale
price in order to prevent his dealers from exploiting a
monopoly position....  [Sluppose that State Oil, perhaps
to encourage...  dealer services...  has spaced its deal-
ers  sufficiently  far  apart  to  limit  competition  among
them (or even given each of them an exclusive territory);
and suppose further that Union 76 is a sufficiently dis-
tinctive and popular brand to give the dealers in it at
least  a modicum  of monopoly  power.  Then  State  Oil
might  want  to  place  a  ceiling  on  the  dealers'  resale
prices in order to prevent them from exploiting that mo-
nopoly power fully.  It would do this not out of disinter-
ested malice, but in its  commercial  self-interest.  The
higher the price at which gasoline is resold, the smaller
the volume sold, and so the lower the profit to the sup-
plier if the higher profit per gallon at the higher price is
being snared by the dealer."  93 F. 3d, at 1362.
See  also  R.  Bork,  The  Antitrust  Paradox  281-282  (1978)
("There could, of course, be no anticonsumer effect from [the
type of price fixing considered in Albrech], and one suspects
that the paper has a legitimate interest in keeping subscriber
prices down  in order to increase  circulation  and  maximize
revenues from advertising").
We recognize that the Albrecht decision presented a num-
ber of theoretical justifications for a per se rule against verti-
cal maximum price fixing.  But criticism of those premises
abounds.  The  Albrecht decision  was grounded  in the fear
that maximum price fixing by suppliers could interfere with
dealer freedom.  390 U. S., at 152.  In response, as one com-
mentator has pointed out, "the ban on maximum resale price
limitations declared in Albrecht in the name of 'dealer free-
dom'  has  actually  prompted  many  suppliers  to  integrate
forward into  distribution,  thus  eliminating the  very  inde-
pendent  trader  for  whom  Albrecht professed  solicitude."

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 8 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
8 P. Areeda, Antitrust Law  1635, p. 395 (1989)  (hereinafter
Areeda).  For example, integration in the newspaper indus-
try since Albrecht has given rise to litigation between inde-
pendent distributors  and publishers.  See P. Areeda  & H.
Hovenkamp, supra,  729.7, pp. 599-614 (1996 Supp.).
The Albrecht Court also expressed the concern that maxi-
mum prices may be set too low for dealers to offer consumers
essential  or  desired  services.  390  U. S.,  at  152-153.  But
such conduct, by driving away customers, would seem likely
to harm  manufacturers  as  well as  dealers  and  consumers,
making it unlikely that a supplier would set such a price as
a matter of business judgment.  See, e. g., Lopatka, Stephen
Breyer and Modern Antitrust: A Snug Fit, 40 Antitrust Bull.
1, 60  (1995);  Blair  & Lang, Albrecht After  ARCO:  Maxi-
mum Resale Price Fixing Moves  Toward the Rule of Rea-
son, 44 Vand. L. Rev. 1007, 1034 (1991).  In addition, Albrecht
noted  that vertical maximum  price  fixing could  effectively
channel  distribution through large  or specially advantaged
dealers.  390 U. S.,  at 153.  It is unclear, however, that a
supplier  would profit from  limiting its market by  exclud-
ing potential dealers.  See, e. g., Easterbrook 905-908.  Fur-
ther, although vertical maximum price fixing might limit the
viability of inefficient dealers, that consequence is not neces-
sarily harmful to competition and consumers.  See, e. g., id.,
at 907; Lopatka, supra, at 60.
Finally, Albrecht reflected the Court's fear that maximum
price fixing could  be used to disguise  arrangements  to fix
minimum prices, 390 U. S.,  at 153, which remain illegal per
se.  Although  we  have  acknowledged  the  possibility  that
maximum pricing'might mask minimum pricing,  see Mari-
copa County, 457  U. S.,  at 348, we believe  that such  con-
duct-as with the other concerns  articulated in Albrecht--
can be appropriately recognized and punished under the rule
of reason.  See, e. g., Easterbrook 901-904; see also Pitofsky,
In Defense  of Discounters: The No-Frills Case for a Per Se

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
Rule Against Vertical Price Fixing, 71 Geo. L. J. 1487, 1490,
n. 17 (1983).
Not only are the potential injuries  cited in Albrecht less
serious than the Court imagined, the per se rule established
therein could in fact exacerbate problems related to the un-
restrained  exercise of market power by monopolist-dealers.
Indeed, both courts and  antitrust scholars  have noted that
Albrecht's rule may actually harm consumers  and manufac-
turers.  See, e. g., Caribe BMW, Inc. v. Bayerische Motoren
Werke  Aktiengesellschaft, 19  F.  3d  745,  753  (CA1  1994)
(Breyer, C. J.); Areeda  1636a, at 395;  G. Mathewson  & R.
Winter,  Competition  Policy  and  Vertical  Exchange  13-14
(1985).  Other  commentators  have  also explained  that Al-
brecht's per se rule has even more potential for deleterious
effect  on competition  after our  decision in GTE Sylvania,
because, now that vertical  nonprice restrictions are not un-
lawful per se, the likelihood of dealer monopoly power is in-
creased.  See, e. g.,  Easterbrook 890, n. 20; see also ARCO,
495  U. S., at 343, n. 13.  We  do not intend to suggest  that
dealers generally possess sufficient market power to exploit
a monopoly situation.  Such retail market power may in fact
be uncommon.  See, e. g., Business Electronics,4 85 U. S., at
727, n. 2; GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S.,  at 54.  Nor do we hold
that  a  ban  on  vertical  maximum  price  fixing  inevitably
has  anticompetitive  consequences  in  the  exclusive  dealer
context.
After reconsidering Albrecht's rationale and the substan-
tial criticism the decision has received, however, we conclude
that there is insufficient economic justification for per se in-
validation of vertical maximum price fixing.  That is so not
only because it is difficult to accept the assumptions underly-
ing Albrecht, but also because Albrecht has little or no rele-
vance  to  ongoing  enforcement  of the  Sherman  Act.  See
Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp., 467 U. S. 752,
777, and n. 25 (1984).  Moreover, neither the parties nor any

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
of the amici curiae have called our attention to any cases in
which enforcement  efforts have been directed solely against
the conduct encompassed by Albrech's per se rule.
Respondents argue that reconsideration of Albrecht should
require "persuasive, expert testimony establishing that the
per se rule has distorted the market."  Brief for Respond-
ents 7.  Their reasoning ignores the fact that Albrecht itself
relied solely upon hypothetical effects of vertical maximum
price fixing.  Further, Albrecht's dire predictions have not
been borne  out, even  though  manufacturers  and  suppliers
appear to have fashioned schemes to get around the per se
rule  against  vertical  maximum  price  fixing.  In  these
circumstances,  it is the  retention  of the  rule  of Albrecht,
and not, as respondents would have it, the rule's elimination,
that lacks adequate justification.  See, e. g.,  GTE Sylvania,
supra, at 58-59.
Respondents'  reliance  on  Toolson v. New  York  Yankees,
Inc., 346 U. S. 356 (1953)  (per curiam), and Flood v. Kuhn,
407 U. S. 258 (1972), is similarly misplaced, because those de-
cisions are clearly inapposite, having to do with the antitrust
exemption for professional baseball, which this Court has de-
scribed as "an aberration.  ..  rest[ing] on a recognition and
an acceptance of baseball's unique characteristics and needs,"
id., at 282.  In the context of this case, we infer little mean-
ing from the fact that Congress has not reacted legislatively
to Albrecht.  In any event, the history of various legislative
proposals regarding price fixing seems neither clearly to sup-
port nor to denounce the per se rule of Albrecht.  Respond-
ents are of course free to  seek legislative protection  from
gasoline  suppliers  of the  sort embodied  in the  Petroleum
Marketing  Practices  Act, 92 Stat. 322,  15 U. S. C. § 2801  et
seq.  For the reasons  we have noted, however, the remedy
for respondents'  dispute with State Oil should not come in
the form of a per se rule affecting the conduct of the entire
marketplace.

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
C
Despite what  Chief Judge Posner aptly described as Al-
brecht's "infirmities,  [and]  its  increasingly  wobbly, moth-
eaten foundations," 93 F. 3d, at 1363, there remains the ques-
tion whether Albrecht deserves continuing respect under the
doctrine of stare decisis.  The Court of Appeals was correct
in  applying  that principle  despite  disagreement  with Al-
brecht, for it is this Court's prerogative alone to overrule one
of its precedents.
We approach the reconsideration of decisions of this Court
with  the  utmost  caution.  Stare decisis reflects  "a policy
judgment that 'in most matters it is more important that the
applicable  rule  of  law  be  settled  than  that  it  be  settled
right."'  Agostini v. Felton, 521 U. S. 203, 235 (1997) (quot-
ing Burnet v.  Coronado Oil & Gas Co.,  285 U.S. 393,  406
(1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting)).  It "is the preferred course
because  it promotes the evenhanded,  predictable,  and  con-
sistent development  of legal principles,  fosters reliance  on
judicial decisions, and contributes to the actual and perceived
integrity of the judicial process."  Payne v. Tennessee, 501
U. S. 808, 827  (1991).  This  Court hag expressed  its reluc-
tance to overrule  decisions involving  statutory interpreta-
tion, see, e. g., Illinois Brick Co. v. Illinois,4 31 U. S. 720, 736
(1977), and has acknowledged that stare decisis concerns are
at their acme in cases involving property and contract rights,
see, e. g., Payne, 501 U. S.,  at 828.  Both of those concerns
are arguably relevant in this case.
But "[s]tared ecisis is not an inexorable command."  Ibid.
In the area of antitrust law, there is a competing  interest,
well represented in this Court's decisions, in recognizing and
adapting to changed circumstances and the lessons of accu-
mulated  experience.  Thus,  the  general  presumption  that
legislative changes should be left to Congress has less force
with  respect  to the  Sherman Act  in light  of the accepted
view  that Congress  "expected the courts  to give  shape to
the statute's broad mandate by drawing on common-law tra-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 522 U. S. 3 (1997)
Opinion of the Court
dition."  National Soc. of ProfessionalE  ngineers v. United
States, 435 U. S. 679, 688 (1978).  As we have explained, the
term "restraint of trade," as used in § 1, also "invokes  the
common law itself, and not merely the static content that the
common law had assigned to the term in 1890."  Business
Electronics, 485  U. S.,  at 732; see also GTE Sylvania, 433
U. S., at 53, n. 21; McNally v. United States, 483 U. S. 350,
372-373  (1987) (STEVENS,  J., dissenting).  Accordingly, this
Court has  reconsidered its decisions  construing  the  Sher-
man Act when the theoretical underpinnings  of those deci-
sions are called into serious question.  See, e. g., Copperweld
Corp., supra, at 777;  GTE Sylvania, supra, at 47-49;  cf.
Tigner v. Texas, 310 U. S.1 41, 147 (1940).
Although we do not "lightly assume that the economic re-
alities underlying earlier decisions have changed, or that ear-
lier judicial perceptions of those realities were in error," we
have noted that "different sorts of agreements" may amount
to restraints of trade "in varying times and circumstances,"
and  "lilt would make no  sense  to create  out of the single
term 'restraint of trade' a chronologically schizoid statute, in
which a 'rule of reason' evolves with new circumstances and
new wisdom, but a line of per se illegality remains forever
fixed where it was."  Business Electronics, supra, at 731-
732.  Just as Schwinn was "the subject of continuing contro-
versy and confusion" under the "great weight" of scholarly
criticism, GTE Sylvania, supra, at 47-48, Albrecht has been
widely criticized since its inception.  With the views under-
lying Albrecht eroded by this Court's precedent, there is not
much of that decision to salvage.  See, e. g., Neal v. United
States, 516 U. S.2 84, 295 (1996); Pattersonv . McLean Credit
Union, 491  U. S. 164,  173  (1989);  Rodriguez de  Quijas v.
Shearson/American Express, Inc.,  490  U.S. 477,  480-481
(1989).
Although the rule of Albrecht has been in effect for some
time, the inquiry we must undertake  requires  considering
"'the effect of the antitrust laws upon vertical distributional

NEW PAGE

STATE OIL CO. v. KHAN
Opinion of the Court
restraints  in  the  American  economy  today."'  GTE  Syl-
vania, supra, at 53, n. 21 (quoting Schwinn, 388 U. S., at 392
(Stewart, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)).  As
the Court noted in ARCO,  495 U. S., at 336, n. 6, there has
not been another case since Albrecht in which this Court has
"confronted an unadulterated vertical, maximum-price-fixing
arrangement."  Now that we confront Albrecht directly, we
find its conceptual foundations gravely weakened.
In overruling Albrecht, we of course do not hold that all
vertical maximum price fixing is per se lawful.  Instead, ver-
tical maximum price fixing, like the majority of commercial
arrangements  subject-to the antitrust laws, should be evalu-
ated under the rule of -reason.  In our view, rule-of-reason
analysis  will  effectively  identify  those  situations  in which
vertical  maximum  price  fixing amounts  to anticompetitive
conduct.
There remains the question whether respondents are enti-
tled to recover  damages based on State Oil's  conduct.  Al-
though the Court of Appeals noted that "the district judge
was right to conclude that if the rule of reason is applicable,
Khan loses," 93 F. 3d, at 1362, its consideration of this case
was necessarily premised on Albrech's per se rule.  Under
the circumstances,  the  matter  should be  reviewed  by the
Court of Appeals in the first instance.  We therefore vacate
the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand the case
for further proceedings  consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

NEW PAGE