547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
CASES ADJUDGED 
IN THE 
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 2005

TEXACO INC. v. DAGHER et al. 
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the ninth circuit 
No. 04–805.  Argued January 10, 2006—Decided February 28, 2006* 
Petitioners, Texaco Inc. and Shell Oil Co., collaborated in a joint venture, 
Equilon Enterprises, to reﬁne and sell gasoline in the western United 
States under the two companies’ original brand names.  After Equilon 
set a single price for both brands, respondents, Texaco and Shell Oil 
service station owners, brought suit alleging that, by unifying gas prices 
under the two brands, petitioners had violated the per se rule against 
price ﬁxing long recognized under § 1 of the Sherman Act, see, e. g., 
Catalano, Inc. v. Target Sales, Inc., 446 U. S. 643, 647.  Granting peti­
tioners summary judgment, the District Court determined that the rule 
of reason, rather than a per se rule, governs respondents’ claim, and 
that, by eschewing rule of reason analysis, respondents had failed to 
raise a triable issue of fact.  The Ninth Circuit reversed, characterizing 
petitioners’ position as a request for an exception to the per se price­
ﬁxing prohibition, and rejecting that request. 
Held: It is not per se illegal under § 1 of the Sherman Act for a lawful, 
economically integrated  joint venture to set  the prices at  which it 
sells its products.  Although § 1 prohibits “[e]very contract [or] com­
bination . . . i n  restraint  of  trade,”  15  U. S. C.  § 1, this  Court  has 
not taken a literal approach to that language, recognizing, instead, that 
*Together with No. 04–814, Shell Oil Co. v. Dagher et al., also on certio­
rari to the same court. 
1 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
2  TEXACO INC. v. DAGHER 
Syllabus 
Congress intended to outlaw only unreasonable restraints, e. g., State 
Oil Co. v. Khan, 522 U. S. 3, 10.  Under rule of reason analysis, antitrust 
plaintiffs must demonstrate that a particular contract or combination is 
in fact unreasonable and anticompetitive.  See, e. g., id., at 10–19.  Per 
se liability is reserved for “plainly anticompetitive” agreements.  Na­
tional Soc. of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 
692.  While “horizontal” price-ﬁxing agreements between two or more 
competitors are per se unlawful, see, e. g., Catalano, supra, at 647, this 
litigation does not present such an agreement, because Texaco and Shell 
Oil did not compete with one another in the relevant market—i. e., gaso­
line sales to western service stations—but instead participated in that 
market jointly through Equilon.  When those who would otherwise be 
competitors pool their capital and share the risks of loss and opportuni­
ties for proﬁt, they are regarded as a single ﬁrm competing with other 
sellers in the market.  Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Soc., 457 
U. S. 332, 356.  As such, Equilon’s pricing policy may be price ﬁxing in 
a literal sense, but it is not price ﬁxing in the antitrust sense.  The 
court below erred in reaching the opposite conclusion under the ancil­
lary restraints doctrine, which governs the validity of restrictions im­
posed by a legitimate joint venture on nonventure activities.  That doc­
trine has no application here, where the challenged business practice 
involves the core activity of the joint venture itself—the pricing of the 
very goods produced and sold by Equilon.  Pp. 5–8. 
369 F. 3d 1108, reversed. 
Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Mem­
bers joined, except Alito, J., who took no part in the consideration or 
decision of the cases. 
Glen D. Nager argued the cause for petitioners in both 
cases.  With him on the briefs for petitioner in No. 04–805 
were Craig E. Stewart, Joe Sims, and Louis K. Fisher.  On 
the briefs for petitioner in No. 04–814 were Ronald L. Olson, 
Bradley S. Phillips, Stuart N. Senator, and Paul J. Watford. 
Jeffrey P. Minear argued the cause for the United States 
as amicus curiae urging reversal in both cases.  With him 
on the brief were Solicitor General Clement, Acting Assist­
ant Attorney General  Barnett,  Deputy  Solicitor  General 
Hungar, Catherine G. O’Sullivan, and Adam D. Hirsh. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 1 (2006)  3 
Opinion of the Court 
Joseph M. Alioto argued the cause for respondents in both 
cases.  With him on the brief were Daniel R. Shulman and 
Gregory Merz.† 
Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court. 
From 1998 until 2002, petitioners Texaco Inc. and Shell Oil 
Co. collaborated in a joint venture, Equilon Enterprises, to 
reﬁne and sell gasoline in the western United States under 
the original Texaco and Shell Oil brand names.  Respond­
ents, a class of Texaco and Shell Oil service station owners, 
allege that petitioners engaged in unlawful price ﬁxing when 
Equilon set a single price for both Texaco and Shell Oil brand 
gasoline.  We granted certiorari to determine whether it is 
per se illegal under § 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1, 
for a lawful, economically integrated joint venture to set the 
prices at which the joint venture sells its products.  We con­
clude that it is not, and accordingly we reverse the contrary 
judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
I 
Historically, Texaco and Shell Oil have competed with one 
another in the national and international oil and gasoline 
†Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in both cases were ﬁled for the 
American Bankers Association et al. by W. Stephen Smith and Beth S. 
Brinkmann; for the American Petroleum Institute by Robert A. Long, Jr., 
Harry M. Ng, and Douglas W. Morris; for the Chamber of Commerce of 
the United States of America by Raymond A. Jacobsen, Jr., Stephen A. 
Bokat, Robin S. Conrad, and Amar D. Sarwal; for Verizon Communica­
tions Inc. by Roy T. Englert, Jr., Donald J. Russell, John Thorne, and 
Paul J. Larkin, Jr.; and for Visa U. S. A. Inc. et al. by M. Laurence Popof­
sky and Stephen V. Bomse. 
Stephen F. Ross ﬁled a brief for the American Antitrust Institute as 
amicus curiae urging afﬁrmance in both cases. 
Briefs of amici curiae were ﬁled in both cases for the Northwest Ohio 
Physician Specialists Cooperative, LLC, by Charles D. Weller and Freder­
ick Byers; and for the Retail Industry Leaders Association et al. by Lloyd 
Constantine and Michelle A. Peters.  Steve C. Vaughn ﬁled a brief for the 
Parker Hanniﬁn Corp. as amicus curiae in No. 04–805. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
4  TEXACO INC. v. DAGHER 
Opinion of the Court 
markets.  Their business activities include reﬁning crude oil 
into gasoline, as well as marketing gasoline to downstream 
purchasers, such as the service stations represented in re­
spondents’ class action. 
In  1998,  Texaco  and  Shell  Oil  formed  a  joint  venture, 
Equilon,  to  consolidate  their  operations  in  the  western 
United States, thereby ending competition between the two 
companies in the domestic reﬁning and marketing of gaso­
line.  Under the joint venture agreement, Texaco and Shell 
Oil agreed to pool their resources and share the risks of and 
proﬁts from Equilon’s activities.  Equilon’s board of direc­
tors would comprise representatives of Texaco and Shell Oil, 
and Equilon gasoline would be sold to downstream purchas­
ers under the original Texaco and Shell Oil brand names. 
The formation of Equilon was approved by consent decree, 
subject to certain divestments and other modiﬁcations, by 
the Federal Trade Commission, see In re Shell Oil Co., 125 
F. T. C. 769 (1998), as well as by the state attorneys gen­
eral of California, Hawaii, Oregon, and Washington.  Nota­
bly, the decrees imposed no restrictions on the pricing of 
Equilon gasoline. 
After  the  joint  venture  began  to  operate,  respondents 
brought suit in District Court, alleging that, by unifying gas­
oline prices under the two brands, petitioners had violated 
the per se rule against price ﬁxing that this Court has long 
recognized under § 1 of the Sherman Act, ch. 647, 26 Stat. 
209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1.  See, e. g., Catalano, Inc. v. 
Target Sales, Inc., 446 U. S. 643, 647 (1980) (per curiam). 
The District Court awarded summary judgment to Texaco 
and Shell Oil.  It determined that the rule of reason, rather 
than a per se rule or the quick look doctrine, governs re­
spondents’ claim, and that, by eschewing rule of reason anal­
ysis, respondents had failed to raise a triable issue of fact. 
The Ninth Circuit reversed, characterizing petitioners’ posi­
tion as a request for an “exception to the per se prohibition 
on  price-ﬁxing,”  and  rejecting  that  request.  Dagher  v. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 1 (2006)  5 
Opinion of the Court 
Saudi Reﬁning, Inc., 369 F. 3d 1108, 1116 (2004).  We consol­
idated Texaco’s and Shell Oil’s separate petitions and granted 
certiorari to determine the extent to which the per se rule 
against price ﬁxing applies to an important and increasingly 
popular  form  of  business  organization,  the  joint  venture. 
545 U. S. 1138 (2005). 
II 
Section 1 of the Sherman Act prohibits “[e]very contract, 
combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, 
in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States.” 
15 U. S. C. § 1.  This Court has not taken a literal approach 
to this language, however.  See, e. g., State Oil Co. v. Khan, 
522 U. S. 3, 10 (1997) (“[T]his Court has long recognized that 
Congress intended to outlaw only unreasonable restraints” 
(emphasis added)).  Instead, this Court presumptively ap­
plies rule of reason analysis, under which antitrust plaintiffs 
must demonstrate that a particular contract or combination 
is in fact unreasonable and anticompetitive before it will be 
found unlawful.  See, e. g., id., at 10–19.  Per se liability is 
reserved for only those agreements that are “so plainly anti­
competitive that no elaborate study of the industry is needed 
to establish their illegality.”  National Soc. of Professional 
Engineers v.  United States, 435 U. S. 679, 692 (1978).  Ac­
cordingly, “we  have expressed  reluctance to adopt  per se 
rules . . . ‘where the economic impact of certain practices is 
not immediately obvious.’ ”  State Oil, supra, at 10 (quoting 
FTC v. Indiana Federation of Dentists, 476 U. S. 447, 458– 
459 (1986)). 
Price-ﬁxing agreements between two or more competitors, 
otherwise known as horizontal price-ﬁxing agreements, fall 
into the category of arrangements that are per se unlawful. 
See, e. g., Catalano, supra, at 647.  These cases do not pre­
sent such an agreement, however, because Texaco and Shell 
Oil did not compete with one another in the relevant mar­
ket—namely, the sale of gasoline to service stations in the 
western  United  States—but  instead  participated  in  that 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
6  TEXACO INC. v. DAGHER 
Opinion of the Court 
market jointly through their investments in Equilon.1  In 
other words, the pricing policy challenged here amounts to 
little  more  than  price  setting  by  a  single  entity—albeit 
within  the  context  of  a  joint  venture—and  not  a  pricing 
agreement  between  competing  entities  with  respect  to 
their competing products.  Throughout Equilon’s existence, 
Texaco and Shell Oil shared in the proﬁts of Equilon’s activi­
ties in their role as investors, not competitors.  When “per­
sons who would otherwise be competitors pool their capital 
and share the risks of loss as well as the opportunities for 
proﬁt . . . such joint ventures [are] regarded as a single ﬁrm 
competing with other sellers in the market.”  Arizona v. 
Maricopa County Medical Soc., 457 U. S. 332, 356 (1982). 
As such, though Equilon’s pricing policy may be price ﬁxing 
in a literal sense, it is not price ﬁxing in the antitrust sense. 
See Broadcast Music, Inc. v.  Columbia Broadcasting Sys­
tem, Inc., 441 U. S. 1, 9 (1979) (“When two partners set the 
price of their goods or services they are literally ‘price ﬁx­
ing,’ but they are not per se in violation of the Sherman 
Act”). 
This conclusion is conﬁrmed by respondents’ apparent con­
cession that there would be no per se liability had Equilon 
simply chosen to sell its gasoline under a single brand.  See 
Tr. of Oral Arg. 34.  We see no reason to treat Equilon dif­
ferently just because it chose to sell gasoline under two dis­
1 We presume for purposes of these cases that Equilon is a lawful joint 
venture.  Its formation has been approved by federal and state regula­
tors, and there is no contention here that it is a sham.  As the court below 
noted: “There is a voluminous record documenting the economic justiﬁca­
tions for creating the joint ventures.  [T]he defendants concluded that 
numerous synergies and cost efﬁciencies would result” by creating Equilon 
as well as a parallel venture, Motiva Enterprises, in the eastern United 
States, and “that nationwide there would be up to $800 million in cost 
savings annually.”  369 F. 3d 1108, 1111 (CA9 2004).  Had respondents 
challenged Equilon itself, they would have been required to show that its 
creation was anticompetitive under the rule of reason.  See Copperweld 
Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp., 467 U. S. 752, 768 (1984). 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 1 (2006)  7 
Opinion of the Court 
tinct brands at a single price.  As a single entity, a joint 
venture, like any other ﬁrm, must have the discretion to de­
termine the prices of the products that it sells, including the 
discretion to sell a product under two different brands at a 
single, uniﬁed price.  If Equilon’s price uniﬁcation policy is 
anticompetitive, then respondents should have challenged it 
pursuant to the rule of reason.2  But it would be inconsistent 
with this Court’s antitrust precedents to condemn the inter­
nal pricing decisions of a legitimate joint venture as per se 
unlawful.3 
The court below reached the opposite conclusion by invok­
ing the ancillary restraints doctrine.  369 F. 3d, at 1118– 
1124.  That  doctrine  governs  the  validity  of  restrictions 
imposed by a  legitimate business collaboration, such  as a 
business association or joint venture, on nonventure activi­
ties.  See, e. g., National Collegiate Athletic Assn. v. Board 
of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468 U. S. 85, 113–115 (1984); 
Citizen Publishing Co. v. United States, 394 U. S. 131, 135– 
136  (1969).  Under  the  doctrine,  courts  must  determine 
whether the nonventure restriction is a naked restraint on 
trade, and thus invalid, or one that is ancillary to the legiti­
mate and competitive purposes of the business association, 
and thus valid.  We agree with petitioners that the ancillary 
restraints doctrine has no application here, where the busi­
ness practice being challenged involves the core activity of 
the  joint  venture  itself—namely,  the  pricing  of  the  very 
2 Respondents have not put forth a rule of reason claim.  369 F. 3d, at 
1113.  Accordingly, we need not address petitioners’ alternative argument 
that § 1 of the Sherman Act is inapplicable to joint ventures. 
3 Respondents alternatively contend that petitioners should be held lia­
ble under the quick look doctrine.  To be sure, we have applied the quick 
look doctrine to business activities that are so plainly anticompetitive that 
courts need undertake only a cursory examination before imposing anti­
trust liability.  See California Dental Assn. v. FTC, 526 U. S. 756, 770 
(1999).  But for the same reasons that per se liability is unwarranted here, 
we conclude that petitioners cannot be held liable under the quick look 
doctrine. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U36 [03-16-0914:05:44] PAGES PGT:OPIN
8  TEXACO INC. v. DAGHER 
Opinion of the Court 
goods produced and sold by Equilon.  And even if we were 
to invoke the doctrine in these cases, Equilon’s pricing policy 
is clearly ancillary to the sale of its own products.  Judge 
Fernandez, dissenting from the ruling of the court below, put 
it well: 
“In this case, nothing more radical is afoot than the 
fact that an entity, which now owns all of the production, 
transportation, research, storage, sales and distribution 
facilities  for  engaging  in  the  gasoline  business,  also 
prices its own products.  It decided to price them the 
same, as any other entity could.  What could be more 
integral to the running of a business than setting a price 
for its goods and services?”  369 F. 3d, at 1127. 
See also Broadcast Music, supra, at 23 (“Joint ventures and 
other cooperative arrangements are . . . not usually unlawful, 
at least not as price-ﬁxing schemes, where the agreement on 
price is necessary to market the product at all”). 
* * * 
Because the pricing decisions of a legitimate joint venture 
do not fall within the narrow category of activity that is per 
se unlawful under § 1 of the Sherman Act, respondents’ anti­
trust claim cannot prevail.  Accordingly, the judgment of the 
Court of Appeals is reversed. 
It is so ordered. 
Justice Alito took no part in the consideration or deci­
sion of these cases. 

NEW PAGE