OCTOBER  TERM, 2003
Syllabus
VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF  CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 02-682.  Argued October 14, 2003-Decided January 13, 2004
The Telecommunications  Act of 1996 imposes upon an incumbent local ex-
change carrier (LEC) the obligation to share its telephone network with
competitors, 47 U. S. C. §251(c), including the duty to provide access to
individual network elements  on an "unbundled"  basis, see  §251(c)(3).
New entrants, so-called competitive LECs, combine and resell these un-
bundled network  elements  (UNEs).  Petitioner  Verizon  Communica-
tions Inc., the incumbent LEC in New York State, has signed intercon-
nection agreements with rivals such as AT&T, as § 252 obliges it to do,
detailing the terms on which it will make its network elements available.
Part of Verizon's § 251(c)(3) UNE obligation is the provision of access to
operations support systems (OSS), without which a rival cannot fill its
customers' orders.  Verizon's  interconnection agreement, approved by
the New York Public Service Commission (PSC), and its authorization to
provide long-distance service, approved by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC), each specified the mechanics by which its OSS obli-
gation would be met.  When competitive LECs complained that Veri-
zon was violating that  obligation, the PSC and FCC opened parallel
investigations, which led to the imposition .of financial penalties, remedi-
ation measures, and additional reporting requirements on Verizon.  Re-
spondent, a local telephone  service customer  of AT&T, then fied this
class action alleging, inter alia,t hat Verizon had filled rivals' orders on
a discriminatory basis as part of an anticompetitive  scheme to discour-
age customers  from becoming or remaining customers  of competitive
LECs in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 2.  The Dis-
trict Court dismissed the complaint, concluding that respondent's allega-
tions of deficient assistance to rivals failed to satisfy § 2's requirements.
The Second Circuit reinstated the antitrust claim.
Held: Respondent's complaint alleging breach of an incumbent LEC's 1996
Act duty to share its network with competitors does not state a claim
under § 2 of the Sherman Act.  Pp. 405-416.
(a) The 1996 Act has no effect upon the application of traditional anti-
trust principles.  Its saving clause-which provides  that "nothing in
this Act... shall be construed to modify, impair, or supersede the appli-
cability of any of the antitrust laws," 47 U. S. C. § 152, note-preserves

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Syllabus
claims that satisfy established antitrust standards, but does not create
new claims that go beyond those standards.  Pp. 405-407.
(b) The activity of which respondent complains does not Violate pre-
existing antitrust standards.  The leading case imposing § 2 liability for
refusal to deal with competitors is Aspen Skiing Co. v. Aspen Highlands
Skiing Corp., 472 U. S. 585, in which the Court concluded that the de-
fendant's termination of a voluntary agreement with the plaintiff sug-
gested a willingness to forsake short-term profits to achieve an anticom-
petitive end.  Aspen is at or near the outer boundary of § 2 liability, and
the present case does not fit within the limited exception it recognized.
Because the complaint does not allege that Verizon ever engaged in a
voluntary course of dealing with its rivals, its prior conduct sheds no
light upon whether its lapses from the legally compelled dealing were
anticompetitive.  Moreover, the Aspen defendant turned down its com-
petitor's proposal to sell at its own retail price, suggesting a calculation
that its future monopoly retail price would be higher, whereas Verizon's
reluctance to interconnect at the cost-based rate of compensation avail-
able under § 251(c)(3) is uninformative.  More fundamentally, the Aspen
defendant refused to provide its competitor with a product it already
sold at retail, whereas here the unbundled elements offered pursuant to
§251(c)(3)  are not available  to the public, but are  provided  to rivals
under compulsion and at considerable expense.  The Court's conclusion
would not change even if it considered to be established law the "essen-
tial facilities" doctrine crafted by some lower courts.  The indispensable
requirement for invoking that doctrine is the unavailability of access to
the "essential facilities"; where access exists, as it does here by virtue
of the 1996 Act, the doctrine serves no purpose.  Pp. 407-411.
(c) Traditional antitrust principles do not justify adding the present
case to the few existing exceptions from the proposition that there is no
duty to aid competitors.  Antitrust analysis must always be attuned to
the  particular  structure  and circumstances  of the industry  at issue.
When there exists a regulatory structure designed to deter and remedy
anticompetitive harm, the additional benefit to competition provided by
antitrust enforcement will tend to be small, and it will be less plausible
that the antitrust laws contemplate such additional scrutiny.  Here Ver-
izon was subject to oversight by the FCC and the PSC, both of which
agencies responded to the OSS failure raised in respondent's complaint\
by imposing fines  and other burdens on Verizon.  Against the slight
benefits of antitrust intervention here must be weighed  a realistic as-
sessment of its costs.  Allegations of violations of § 251(c)(3) duties are
both technical and extremely numerous, and hence difficult for antitrust
courts  to  evaluate.  Applying  §2's requirements  to  this regime  can
readily result in "false positive" mistaken inferences that chill the very

NEW PAGE

400  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
Syllabus
conduct the antitrust laws are designed to protect.  Matsushita Elec.
Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U. S. 574, 594.  Pp. 411-416.
305 F. 3d 89, reversed and remanded.
SCALIA, J.,  delivered  the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J.,  and  O'CONNOR,  KENNEDY,  GINSBURG,  and  BREYER,  JJ., joined.
STEVENS, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which SOUTER
and THOMAS, JJ., joined, post, p. 416.
Richard G. Taranto argued the cause for petitioner.  With
him  on  the briefs  were  John Thorne, Michael K. Kellogg,
Mark C. Hansen, Aaron M. Panner,a nd Henry B. Gutman.
Solicitor General Olson argued the cause for the United
States et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.  With him on
the  brief  were  Acting  Assistant Attorney  General Pate,
Deputy  Solicitor General  Clement,  Jeffrey  A.  Lamken,
Catherine G.  O'Sullivan, Nancy  C. Garrison, and David
Seidman.
Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., argued the cause for respondent.
With  him  on  the  brief  were  Alice  McInerney, Bruce V
Spiva, Ian Heath Gershengorn, Marc A.  Goldman, Elaine
J  Goldenberg, and Chester T Kamin.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal  were filed  for the Common-
wealth of Virginia et al. by Jerry W Kilgore, Attorney General of Virginia,
William H. Hurd, State Solicitor, Maureen Riley Matsen and William
E. Thro, Deputy State Solicitors, Judith Williams Jagdmann, Deputy At-
torney General, C. Meade Browder, Jr., Senior Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral, and Sarah Oxenham Allen and Raymond L. Doggett, Jr., Assistant
Attorneys  General,  and by the Attorneys  General  for their  respective
States as follows:  William H.  Pryor,J r., of Alabama, M. Jane Brady of
Delaware,  Steve  Carter of Indiana,  Jon Bruning of Nebraska,  Peter
W Heed of New Hampshire,  W A  Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, and
Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah; for BellSouth Corp. et al. by Stephen M. Sha-
piro, John E. Muench, Jeffrey W Sarles, Marc Gary, Marc W. F Galonsky,
and William M. Schur; for the Communications Workers of America by
Patrick M. Scanlon, Andrew D. Roth, and Laurence Gold; for the Tele-
communications Industry Association by Donald I. Baker; for United Par-
cel  Service,  Inc.,  et al. by Drew S. Days III, W  Stephen Smith, Beth
S. Brinkmann, Paul T Friedman,a nd Peter M. Kreindler;f or the United

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
JUSTICE SCALIA delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Telecommunications  Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-104, 110
Stat. 56,  imposes  certain duties  upon  incumbent local  tele-
phone companies in order to facilitate market entry by com-
petitors, and  establishes  a  complex  regime for  monitoring
and enforcement.  In this case we consider  whether a com-
plaint alleging breach of the incumbent's duty under the 1996
Act  to  share  its network  with  competitors  states  a  claim
under § 2 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209.
States Telecom  Association by William T Lake, James F. Rill, James
W  Olson, and Michael T McMenamin; and for the Washington  Legal
Foundation by Steven G. Bradbury, Daniel J Popeo, and David A  Price.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were  filed for the State  of
New York et al. by Eliot Spitzer, Attorney General of New York, Caitlin
J  Halligan,S olicitor General, Michelle Aronwwitz, Deputy Solicitor Gen-
eral, Daniel J. Chepaitis, Assistant Solicitor General, and Jay L. Himes,
Susanna M. Zwerling, Richard L. Schwartz, and Keith H. Gordon, Assist-
ant Attorneys General, by Robert J. Spagnoletti, Corporation Counsel of
the District of Columbia, and by the Attorneys General for their respec-
tive jurisdictions as follows: Terry Goddard of Arizona, Richard Blumen-
thal of Connecticut,  G. Steven Rowe of Maine, J  Joseph Curran,J r., of
Maryland, Michael A  Cox of Michigan, Mike Hatch of Minnesota, Jere-
miah W  (Jay) Nixon of Missouri,  Mike  McGrath of Montana,  Hardy
Myers of Oregon, Anabelle Rodriguez of Puerto Rico, William Sorrell of
Vermont, DarrellV   McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Peggy A  Lauten-
schlager of Wisconsin;  for Allegiance  Telecom,  Inc.,  et al.  by Richard
M. Rindler, Eric J. Branfman, Rebecca P  Dick, Christopher A  Holt,
and Richard Metzger; for the American Antitrust Institute by Jonathan
L. Rubin and Albert A  Foer; for AT&T Corp. et al. by David W Carpenter
and  Stephen  T  Perkins; for the  Consumers  Union  et al.  by  Michael
D. McNeely and Patrick J. O'Connor;f or Covad Communications Co., Inc.,
by Alfred C. Pfeiffer, Jr.; for Economics Professors by CarterG  . Phillips
and C. Frederick Beckner III; for Law Professors by Steven Semeraro;
for the National Association of State Utility Consumer Advocates by Ger-
ald A  Norlandera nd Robert S. Tongren; and for Z-Tel Technologies, Inc.,
by ChristopherJ   Wright.
Robert H. Bork filed a brief for the Project to Promote Competition and
Innovation in the Digital Age as amicus curiae.

NEW PAGE

402  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS V. TRINKO, LLP
Opinion of the Court
I
Petitioner Verizon  Communications  Inc. is the incumbent
local exchange carrier (LEC) serving New York State.  Be-
fore the 1996 Act, Verizon,'  like other incumbent LECs, en-
joyed  an  exclusive  franchise  within  its  local  service  area.
The 1996 Act sought to "uproo[t]"  the incumbent LECs' mo-
nopoly  and  to  introduce  competition  in  its place.  Verizon
Communications Inc. v.  FCC, 535  U. S.  467,  488  (2002).
Central  to the  scheme  of the  Act is the incumbent  LEC's
obligation under 47 U. S. C. § 251(c) to share its network with
competitors,  see  AT&T  Corp. v.  Iowa  Utilities Bd.,  525
U. S. 366,  371  (1999),  including  provision  of access  to indi-
vidual  elements  of the  network  on  an  "unbundled"  basis.
§251(c)(3).  New entrants,  so-called  competitive  LECs, re-
sell these unbundled network elements  (UNEs), recombined
with each other or with elements belonging to the LECs.
Verizon,  like other  incumbent  LECs,  has taken  two  sig-
nificant  steps  within  the Act's  framework  in  the direction
of increased competition.  First, Verizon  has signed  inter-
connection  agreements  with rivals  such  as AT&T, as  it  is
obliged to do under § 252, detailing the terms on which it will
make its network elements available.  (Because Verizon and
AT&T could not agree upon terms, the open issues were sub-
jected to compulsory arbitration under §§ 252(b) and (c).)  In
1997, the  state regulator, New York's  Public  Service Com-
mission  (PSC),  approved  Verizon's  interconnection  agree-
ment with AT&T.
Second,  Verizon has  taken advantage  of the opportunity
provided  by  the  1996  Act  for  incumbent  LECs  to  enter
the  long-distance  market  (from which  they  had  long been
excluded).  That  required  Verizon  to  satisfy, among  other
things, a 14-item  checklist of statutory requirements, which
'In  1996,  NYNEX  was  the incumbent  LEC  for  New  York  State.
NYNEX  subsequently  merged  with Bell Atlantic  Corporation,  and the
merged entity retained the Bell Atlantic name; a further merger produced
Verizon.  We use "Verizon" to refer to NYNEX and Bell Atlantic as well.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
includes  compliance  with the Act's network-sharing  duties.
§§ 271(d)(3)(A) and (c)(2)(B).  Checklist item two, for exam-
ple,  includes  "[n]ondiscriminatory  access  to  network  ele-
ments  in  accordance  with  the requirements"  of §251(c)(3).
§ 271(c)(2)(B)(ii).  Whereas  the state regulator  approves an
interconnection agreement, for long-distance approval the in-
cumbent LEC applies to the Federal Communications  Com-
mission (FCC).  In December 1999, the FCC approved Veri-
zon's § 271 application for New York.
Part of Verizon's  UNE  obligation  under § 251(c)(3) is the
provision  of access  to operations  support systems  (OSS), a
set of systems used by incumbent LECs to provide services
to customers and ensure quality.  Verizon's interconnection
agreement and long-distance authorization each specified the
mechanics  by which its  OSS obligation would  be met.  As
relevant  here, a  competitive  LEC  sends orders  for service
through an electronic interface  with Verizon's ordering  sys-
tem,  and  as Verizon  completes  certain  steps  in filling  the
order, it sends confirmation back through the same interface.
Without OSS access a rival cannot fill its customers' orders.
In late 1999,  competitive  LECs complained to regulators
that many  orders were  going unfilled, in violation of Veri-
zon's  obligation  to provide  access  to  OSS  functions.  The
PSC and FCC opened parallel investigations, which led to a
series of orders by the PSC  and a consent decree with the
FCC.2  Under the FCC consent  decree, Verizon undertook
2 Order Directing  Improvements  To Wholesale  Service  Performance,
MCI WorldCom, Inc. v. Bell Atlantic-New York,  Nos. 00-C-0008, 00-C-
0009, 2000 WL 363378 (N. Y. PSC, Feb. 11, 2000); Order Directing Market
Adjustments and Amending Performance  Assurance Plan, MCI World-
Corn, Inc. v. Bell Atlantic-New York, Nos. 00-C-0008, 00-C-0009, 99-C-
0949, 2000 WL 517633 (N. Y PSC, Mar. 23, 2000); Order Addressing OSS
Issues, MCI WorldCom, Inc. v. Bell Atlantic-New York, Nos. 00-C-0008,
00-C-0009, 99-C--0949, 2000 WL 1531916 (N. Y. PSC, July 27, 2000); In re
Bell Atlantic-New York Authorization Under Section 271 of the Commu-
nications Act to Provide In-Region, InterLATA Service In  the State of
New York, 15 FCC Rcd. 5413 (2000) (Order); id., at 5415 (Consent Decree).

NEW PAGE

404  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v.  LAW OFFICES
OF  CURTIS V. TRINKO, LLP
Opinion of the Court
to make a "voluntary contribution" to the U. S. Treasury in
the amount of $3 million, 15 FCC Red. 5415, 5421,  16 (2000);
under the PSC orders, Verizon incurred liability to the com-
petitive LECs in the amount of $10 million.  Under the con-
sent decree  and orders, Verizon  was subjected to new per-
formance measurements  and new reporting requirements to
the FCC  and  PSC, with additional  penalties  for continued
noncompliance.  In June 2000, the FCC terminated the con-
sent decree.  Enforcement  Bureau Announces that Bell At-
lantic  Has  Satisfied  Consent  Decree  Regarding  Electronic
Ordering Systems in New York (June 20, 2000), http://www.
fcc.gov/eb/NewsReleases/bellatlet.html  (all Internet  mate-
rials as visited Dec. 12, 2003, and available in Clerk of Court's
case  file).  The  next  month  the  PSC  relieved  Verizon  of
the  heightened  reporting  requirement.  Order  Addressing
OSS Issues, MCI WorldCom, Inc. v. Bell Atlantic-New York,
Nos. 00-C-0008,  00-C-0009,  99-C-0949,  2000 WL  1531916
(N. Y. PSC, July 27, 2000).
Respondent Law Offices of Curtis V. Trinko, LLP, a New
York City law firm, was a local telephone service  customer
of AT&T.  The day after Verizon entered its consent decree
with  the FCC, respondent filed a complaint in the District
Court for the  Southern District of New York, on behalf of
itself and a class of similarly situated customers.  See App.
12-33.  The complaint,  as later amended,  id., at 34-50, al-
leged that Verizon had filled rivals'  orders on a discrimina-
tory basis as part of an anticompetitive scheme to discourage
customers from becoming or remaining customers of compet-
itive LECs, thus impeding the competitive  LECs' ability to
enter and compete in the market for local telephone service.
See,  e.g.,  id., at  34-35,  46-47, 1 1, 2,  52,  54.  According
to  the  complaint,  Verizon  "has  filled  orders  of  [competi-
tive  LEC]  customers  after  filling  those  for  its  own  local
phone service, has failed to fill in a timely manner, or not at
all,  a  substantial  number  of orders  for  [competitive  LEC]
customers...  , and has systematically failed to inform [com-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540'U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
petitive  LECs]  of the  status  of their  customers'  orders."
Id., at 39,  21.  The complaint set forth a single example of
the alleged "failure to provide adequate access  to [competi-
tive  LECs],"  namely, the  OSS failure that  resulted  in  the
FCC consent  decree  and PSC orders.  Id., at 40,  22.  It
asserted that the result of Verizon's improper "behavior with
respect to providing access  to its local loop"  was to "deter
potential customers  [of rivals]  from switching."  Id., at 35,
47,  2, 57.  The complaint sought damages  and injunctive
relief for violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 2,
pursuant to the remedy provisions of §§ 4 and 16 of the Clay-
ton Act, 38 Stat. 731, as amended, 15 U. S. C. §§ 15, 26.  The
complaint also alleged violations  of the 1996  Act, § 202(a) of
the Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, as amended,
47 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., and state law.
The District Court dismissed the complaint in its entirety.
As  to the antitrust portion, it  concluded  that respondent's
allegations  of deficient  assistance  to rivals  failed  to satisfy
the requirements of § 2.  The Court of Appeals for the Sec-
ond Circuit reinstated  the complaint  in part, including  the
antitrust claim.  305 F. 3d 89, 113 (2002).  We granted cer-
tiorari, limited to the question whether the Court of Appeals
erred in reversing the District Court's dismissal of respond-
ent's antitrust claims.  538 U. S. 905 (2003).
II
To decide  this case, we must first determine what effect
(if any) the 1996 Act has upon the application  of traditional
antitrust principles.  The Act imposes a large number of du-
ties upon  incumbent  LECs-above  and beyond  those basic
responsibilities it imposes upon all carriers, such as assuring
number portability and providing access to rights-of-way, see
47  U. S. C.  §§ 251(b)(2),  (4).  Under  the  sharing  duties  of
§251(c),  incumbent  LECs are required  to offer  three kinds
of access.  Already noted, and perhaps most intrusive, is the
duty to offer access to UNEs on "just, reasonable, and non-

NEW PAGE

406  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF  CURTIS V. TRINKO, LLP
Opinion of the Court
discriminatory" terms, § 251(c)(3), a phrase that the FCC has
interpreted to mean a price reflecting long-run incremental
cost.  See Verizon Communications Inc. v. FCC, 535 U. S.,
at 495-496.  A rival can interconnect its own facilities with
those of the incumbent LEC, or it can simply purchase serv-
ices at wholesale from the incumbent and resell them to con-
sumers.  See  §§251(c)(2),  (4).  The  Act also  imposes  upon
incumbents the duty to allow physical "collocation"-that is,
to permit a competitor to locate and install its equipment on
the  incumbent's  premises-which  makes  feasible  intercon-
nection and access to UNEs.  See §251(c)(6).
That Congress created these duties, however, does not au-
tomatically lead to the conclusion  that they can be enforced
by means of an antitrust claim.  Indeed, a detailed regula-
tory scheme such as that created by the 1996 Act ordinarily
raises  the question  whether the regulated  entities  are not
shielded from  antitrust scrutiny altogether by the doctrine
of implied immunity.  See, e. g.,  United States v. National
Assn. of Securities Dealers, Inc., 422 U. S. 694 (1975);  Gor-
don v. New York  Stock Exchange, Inc., 422 U. S. 659 (1975).
In some respects the enforcement scheme set up by the 1996
Act is a good candidate for implication of antitrust immunity,
to avoid the real possibility of judgments conflicting with the
agency's regulatory scheme "that might be voiced by courts
exercising  jurisdiction under  the antitrust  laws."  United
States v. National Assn. of Securities Dealers, Inc., supra,
at 734.
Congress,  however,  precluded  that interpretation.  Sec-
tion 601(b)(1)  of the 1996 Act is an antitrust-specific saving
clause providing that "nothing in this Act or the amendments
made by this  Act shall  be construed  to modify, impair,  or
supersede  the  applicability  of any  of the  antitrust laws."
110 Stat. 143, 47 U. S. C. § 152,  note.  This bars a finding of
implied immunity.  As the FCC has put the point, the saving
clause preserves  those "claims that satisfy established  anti-
trust standards."  Brief for United  States and  the Federal

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
Communications  Commission  as Amici  Curiae Supporting
Neither Party in  No. 02-7057,  Covad Communications Co.
v. Bell Atlantic Corp. (CADC), p. 8.
But just  as  the  1996  Act  preserves  claims  that  satisfy
existing antitrust standards, it  does  not create new claims
that go beyond existing  antitrust standards;  that would be
equally inconsistent  with  the saving  clause's  mandate  that
nothing in the Act "modify, impair, or supersede the applica-
bility" of the antitrust laws.  We turn, then, to whether the
activity of which respondent complains violates pre-existing
antitrust standards.
I'
The complaint alleges that Verizon denied interconnection
services  to rivals in order to limit entry.  If that allegation
states  an antitrust claim  at all, it does  so under § 2  of the
Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 2, which declares that a firm shall
not "monopolize"  or "attempt to monopolize."  Ibid.  It is
settled law that this offense requires, in addition to the pos-
session of monopoly power in the relevant market, "the will-
ful acquisition or maintenance of that power as distinguished
from growth or development  as a consequence  of a superior
product,  business  acumen,  or  historic  accident."  United
States v. Grinnell Corp., 384 U. S. 563, 570-571 (1966).  The
mere  possession  of monopoly  power,  and  the  concomitant
charging of monopoly prices, is not only not unlawful; it is an
important element of the free-market system.  The opportu-
nity to charge monopoly prices-at least for a short period-
is what  attracts "business  acumen"  in the first place; it in-
duces  risk  taking that  produces  innovation  and  economic
growth.  To safeguard the incentive to innovate, the posses-
sion of monopoly  power  will not be  found  unlawful unless
it is accompanied  by an element of anticompetitive  conduct.
Firms may acquire monopoly power by establishing an in-
frastructure that renders them uniquely suited to serve their
customers.  Compelling  such  firms  to  share  the  source  of
their advantage is in some tension with the underlying pur-

NEW PAGE

408  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW  OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
Opinion of the Court
pose of antitrust law, since it may lessen the incentive for the
monopolist, the rival, or both to invest in those economically
beneficial  facilities.  Enforced  sharing  also  requires  anti-
trust courts to act as central planners, identifying the proper
price, quantity, and other terms of dealing-a role for which
they  are  ill  suited.  Moreover,  compelling  negotiation  be-
tween competitors  may facilitate  the  supreme  evil of anti-
trust: collusion.  Thus, as a general matter, the Sherman Act
"does not restrict the long recognized  right of [a]  trader or
manufacturer engaged in an entirely private business, freely
to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties with
whom  he  will  deal."  United States v. Colgate & Co., 250
U. S. 300, 307 (1919).
However,  "[t]he  high  value  that we  have  placed  on  the
right to refuse to deal with other firms does not mean that
the right is unqualified."  Aspen Skiing Co. v. Aspen High-
lands Skiing Corp., 472 U. S. 585, 601 (1985).  Under certain
circumstances, a refusal to cooperate with rivals can consti-
tute anticompetitive conduct and violate § 2.  We have been
very cautious in recognizing such exceptions, because of the
uncertain virtue of forced sharing and the difficulty of identi-
fying  and  remedying  anticompetitive  conduct  by  a  single
firm.  The question before  us today is whether the allega-
tions of respondent's complaint fit within existing exceptions
or provide a basis, under traditional antitrust principles, for
recognizing a new one.
The leading case for § 2 liability based on refusal to cooper-
ate with a rival, and the case upon which respondent under-
standably places  greatest reliance,  is Aspen Skiing, supra.
The Aspen ski area consisted of four mountain areas.  The
defendant, who owned three of those areas, and the plaintiff,
who owned the fourth, had cooperated for years in the issu-
ance of a joint, multiple-day, all-area  ski ticket.  After  re-
peatedly demanding  an increased share of the proceeds, the
defendant canceled the joint ticket.  The plaintiff, concerned
that skiers  would bypass  its mountain  without  some joint

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
offering, tried a variety of increasingly desperate  measures
to re-create  the joint ticket, even  to the point  of in  effect
offering  to buy the defendant's  tickets at retail price.  Id.,
at 593-594.  The defendant  refused  even  that.  We upheld
a jury verdict for the plaintiff, reasoning that "[the jury may
well  have  concluded  that  [the  defendant]  elected  to forgo
these  short-run  benefits  because  it was  more interested  in
reducing competition  ...  over the long run by harming its
smaller competitor."  Id., at 608.
Aspen Skiing is at or near the outer boundary of § 2 liabil-
ity.  The Court there found significance  in  the defendant's
decision to cease participation in a cooperative venture.  See
id., at 608, 610-611.  The unilateral termination  of a volun-
tary  (and thus presumably profitable) course  of  dealing
suggested  a  willingness  to  forsake  short-term  profits  to
achieve  an  anticompetitive  end.  Ibid.  Similarly, the  de-
fendant's unwillingness to renew the ticket even if compen-
sated at retail price revealed  a  distinctly  anticompetitive
bent.
The refusal to deal alleged in the present case does not fit
within  the  limited  exception  recognized  in  Aspen  Skiing.
The  complaint does  not allege that Verizon  voluntarily  en-
gaged  in a course of dealing with its rivals, or would ever
have done so absent statutory compulsion.  Here, therefore,
the defendant's  prior conduct  sheds no  light upon the mo-
tivation  of  its  refusal  to  deal-upon  whether  its  regula-
tory lapses were  prompted  not by competitive zeal  but by
anticompetitive  malice.  The contrast between  the cases  is
heightened by the difference in pricing behavior.  In Aspen
Skiing, the defendant turned down a proposal  to sell at its
own retail price, suggesting a calculation that its future mo-
nopoly retail price would be higher.  Verizon's reluctance to
interconnect at the cost-based rate of compensation available
under §251(c)(3) tells us nothing about dreams of monopoly.
The  specific nature of what the  1996  Act compels  makes
this case different from Aspen Skiing in a more fundamental

NEW PAGE

410  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS V. TRINKO, LLP
Opinion of the Court
way.  In Aspen Skiing, what the defendant refused  to pro-
vide to its competitor was a product  that it already sold at
retail-to  oversimplify  slightly, lift  tickets  representing  a
bundle of services  to skiers.  Similarly, in Otter Tail Power
Co. v. United States, 410 U. S. 366 (1973),  another case relied
upon by respondent, the defendant was already in the busi-
ness  of  providing  a  service  to  certain  customers  (power
transmission  over its network),  and refused  to provide  the
same  service  to certain  other  customers.  Id.,  at  370-371,
377-378.  In the present case, by contrast, the  services  al-
legedly withheld are not otherwise marketed or available to
the public.  The sharing obligation imposed by the 1996 Act
created  "something brand new"--"the wholesale market for
leasing network elements."  Verizon Communications Inc.
v. FCC, 535  U. S., at 528.  The unbundled  elements  offered
pursuant  to §251(c)(3)  exist only deep within the bowels of
Verizon; they are brought out on compulsion of the 1996 Act
and offered not to consumers but to rivals, and at consider-
able  expense  and  effort.  New systems  must  be  designed
and implemented  simply  to make  that access  possible-in-
deed, it is the failure of one of those systems that prompted
the present complaint.3
We conclude that Verizon's alleged  insufficient assistance
in the provision of service to rivals is not a recognized  anti-
trust claim under this Court's  existing refusal-to-deal  prec-
edents.  This  conclusion  would  be  unchanged  even  if  we
considered to be established law the "essential facilities" doc-
trine crafted by some lower courts, under which the Court
of Appeals concluded  respondent's allegations might state a
claim.  See generally  Areeda,  Essential Facilities:  An Epi-
3Respondent also relies upon United States v. Terminal Railroad Assn.
of St. Louis, 224 U. S. 383 (1912), and Associated Press v. United States,
326 U. S. 1 (1945).  These cases involved concerted action, which presents
greater anticompetitive  concerns and is amenable to a remedy that does
not require judicial estimation of free-market forces: simply requiring that
the outsider be granted nondiscriminatory admission to the club.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
thet in Need  of Limiting  Principles, 58 Antitrust  L. J. 841
(1989).  We  have  never  recognized  such  a  doctrine,  see
Aspen Skiing Co.,  472  U. S.,  at 611,  n. 44;  AT&T  Corp. v.
Iowa Utilities Bd., 525 U. S., at 428 (opinion of BREYER, J.),
and  we find no  need either  to  recognize  it or to  repudiate
it  here.  It suffices  for  present  purposes  to  note  that  the
indispensable  requirement  for invoking  the doctrine  is the
unavailability of access to the "essential facilities"; where ac-
cess exists, the doctrine serves no purpose.  Thus, it is said
that "essential facility claims  should ...  be denied where a
state or federal agency has effective power to compel sharing
and to regulate its scope  and terms."  P. Areeda  & H. Ho-
venkamp,  Antitrust  Law, p.  150,  773e  (2003  Supp.).  Re-
spondent believes that the existence of sharing duties under
the 1996 Act supports its case.  We think the opposite:  The
1996  Act's extensive  provision for access  makes it unneces-
sary to impose a judicial  doctrine of forced access.  To the
extent respondent's "essential facilities" argument is distinct
from its general § 2 argument, we reject it.
IV
Finally, we do not believe that traditional antitrust princi-
ples justify adding the present case  to the few existing ex-
ceptions  from the proposition  that  there is  no  duty to aid
competitors.  Antitrust analysis must always be attuned to
the particular  structure  and  circumstances  of the  industry
at issue.  Part of that attention  to economic context  is an
awareness  of the  significance  of regulation.  As  we  have
noted, "careful account must be taken of the pervasive  fed-
eral  and  state  regulation  characteristic  of the  industry."
United States v. Citizens & Southern Nat. Bank, 422 U. S.
86, 91 (1975);  see also IA P. Areeda & H. Hovenkamp, Anti-
trust Law, p. 12,  240c3 (2d ed. 2000).  "[Alntitrust analysis
must  sensitively  recognize  and  reflect  the  distinctive  eco-
nomic  and legal setting  of the regulated industry  to which
it applies."  Concord v. Boston Edison Co.,  915  F. 2d  17,

NEW PAGE

412  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS V. TRINKO,  LLP
Opinion of the Court
22  (CA1  1990)  (Breyer,  C.  J.)  (internal  quotation  marks
omitted).
One  factor of particular importance is  the existence  of a
regulatory structure designed to deter and remedy anticom-
petitive  harm.  Where  such  a  structure  exists,  the  addi-
tional benefit to competition provided  by antitrust enforce-
ment  will  tend  to  be  small,  and  it  will  be  less  plausible
that the antitrust laws contemplate such additional scrutiny.
Where, by contrast, "[t]here  is nothing built into the regula-
tory scheme which performs the antitrust function," Silver
v. New  York  Stock  Exchange, 373 U. S. 341,  358 (1963),  the
benefits  of antitrust are  worth  its  sometimes  considerable
disadvantages.  Just  as  regulatory  context  may  in  other
cases serve as a basis for implied immunity, see, e. g.,  United
States v. National Assn.  of Securities Dealers, Inc.,  422
U. S., at 730-735, it may also be a consideration in deciding
whether to recognize an expansion of the contours of § 2.
The regulatory  framework  that  exists in  this  case dem-
onstrates how, in certain  circumstances,  "regulation  signif-
icantly  diminishes  the likelihood of major  antitrust harm."
Concord v. Boston Edison Co., supra, at 25.  Consider, for
example, the statutory restrictions upon Verizon's entry into
the  potentially  lucrative  market  for  long-distance  service.
To be allowed to enter the long-distance  market in the first
place, an incumbent  LEC  must be on  good behavior  in its
local market.  Authorization by the FCC requires state-by-
state  satisfaction  of § 271's  competitive  checklist,  which  as
we have  noted includes  the nondiscriminatory  provision  of
access  to UNEs.  Section 271  applications  to provide long-
distance  service  have  now  been  approved  for  incumbent
LECs in 47 States and the District of Columbia.  See FCC
Authorizes SBC to Provide Long Distance Service in Illinois,
Indiana, Ohio and Wisconsin (Oct. 15, 2003), http://hraunfoss.
fcc.gov/edocs_  public/attachmatch/DOC-239978Al.pdf.
The FCC's § 271 authorization order for Verizon to provide
long-distance service in New York discussed at great length
Verizon's commitments to provide access to UNEs, including

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
the provision  of OSS.  In  re Application by Bell Atlantic
New York for Authorization Under Section 271 of the Com-
munications Act To Provide In-Region, InterLATA Service
in  the  State of New  York,  15  FCC  Rcd.  3953,  3989-4077,
82-228 (1999) (Memorandum  Opinion and Order) (herein-
after In  re Application).  Those commitments are  enforce-
able by the FCC through continuing  oversight; a failure  to
meet an  authorization condition  can result in an order that
the deficiency be corrected, in the imposition of penalties, or
in  the  suspension  or  revocation  of long-distance  approval.
See  47 U. S. C. §271(d)(6)(A).  Verizon also subjected itself
to  oversight  by  the  PSC  under  a  so-called  "Performance
Assurance  Plan"  (PAP).  See  In  re New  York  Telephone
Co.,  197 P. U. R. 4th 266, 280-281  (N. Y. PSC, 1999)  (Order
Adopting the Amended PAP).  The PAP, which by its terms
became binding upon FCC approval, provides specific finan-
cial penalties in the event of Verizon's failure to achieve  de-
tailed performance requirements.  The FCC described Veri-
zon's having entered into a PAP as a significant factor in its
§ 271 authorization, because that provided "a strong financial
incentive  for  post-entry  compliance  with  the  section  271
checklist,"  and  prevented  "'backsliding."'  In  re Applica-
tion 3958-3959,  8, 12.
The regulatory response to the OSS failure complained of
in respondent's suit provides a vivid example of how the reg-
ulatory  regime operates.  When several competitive  LECs
complained  about  deficiencies  in  Verizon's  servicing  of or-
ders,  the  FCC  and  PSC  responded.  The  FCC  soon  con-
cluded that Verizon was in breach of its sharing duties under
§ 25 1(c), imposed a substantial fine, and set up sophisticated
measurements to gauge remediation, with weekly reporting
requirements  and  specific  penalties  for  failure.  The  PSC
found Verizon in violation of the PAP even earlier, and im-
posed additional financial penalties and  measurements with
daily reporting requirements.  In short, the regime was an
effective steward of the antitrust function.

NEW PAGE

414  VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW  OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
Opinion of the Court
Against the slight benefits  of antitrust intervention here,
we must  weigh  a realistic  assessment of its cost§.  Under
the best of circumstances,  applying the requirements  of § 2
"can be difficult" because "the means of illicit exclusion, like
the  means of legitimate  competition,  are myriad."  United
States v. Microsoft Corp., 253 F. 3d 34, 58 (CADC 2001)  (en
banc) (per curiam).  Mistaken inferences and the resulting
false condemnations  "are especially costly, because they chill
the very conduct the antitrust laws are designed to protect."
Matsushita Elec. Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475
U. S.  574,  594  (1986).  The  cost  of false  positives  counsels
against  an  undue  expansion  of  § 2  liability.  One  false-
positive risk is that an incumbent LEC's failure to provide a
service with sufficient alacrity might have nothing to do with
exclusion.  Allegations  of violations of § 251(c)(3)  duties are
difficult  for  antitrust  courts  to evaluate,  not only  because
they are highly technical, but also because they are likely to
be  extremely  numerous,  given  the incessant,  complex, .and
constantly  changing  interaction  of competitive  and  incum-
bent  LECs implementing  the  sharing  and  interconnection
obligations.  Amici States have filed  a brief asserting that
competitive LECs are threatened with "death by a thousand
cuts," Brief for New York et al. as Amici Curiae 10 (internal
quotation marks omitted)-the identification of which would
surely  be  a daunting task for a  generalist  antitrust  court.
Judicial oversight under the Sherman  Act would seem des-
tined to distort investment  and  lead to  a new layer of in-
terminable  litigation,  atop  the  variety  of litigation  routes
already  available  to  and  actively  pursued  by  competitive
LECs.
Even if the problem of false positives did not exist, conduct
consisting of anticompetitive  violations of § 251  may be,  as
we  have  concluded  with  respect  to  above-cost  predatory
pricing schemes,  "beyond  the practical  ability  of a judicial
tribunal to control."  Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown & Wil-
liamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209, 223 (1993).  Effective

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
Opinion of the Court
remediation of violations of regulatory sharing requirements
will ordinarily require continuing supervision of a highly de-
tailed decree.  We  think that  Professor Areeda  got it ex-
actly  right: "No  court should impose  a duty to deal that it
cannot explain or adequately and reasonably supervise.  The
problem  should be deemed  irremedia[ble]  by antitrust  law
when  compulsory  access  requires  the court  to assume  the
day-to-day  controls  characteristic  of a regulatory  agency."
Areeda, 58 Antitrust L. J., at 853.  In this case, respondent
has  requested  an  equitable  decree  to  "[p]reliminarily  and
permanently enjoiln]  [Verizon] from providing access to the
local loop market ...  to [rivals] on terms and conditions that
are  not as  favorable"  as  those  that  Verizon  enjoys.  App.
49*-50.  An antitrust court is unlikely to be an effective day-
to-day enforcer of these detailed sharing obligations.4
*  *  *
The  1996 Act is, in an important respect, much more ambi-
tious than the antitrust laws.  It attempts "to eliminate the
monopolies enjoyed by the inheritors of AT&T's local fran-
chises."  Verizon Communications Inc. v. FCC, 535  U. S.,
at 476 (emphasis added).  Section 2 of the Sherman Act, by
contrast, seeks merely to prevent unlawful monopolization.
It would be a serious mistake to conflate the two goals.  The
Sherman Act is indeed the "Magna Carta of free enterprise,"
United States v.  Topco Associates, Inc., 405  U. S.  596, 610
(1972), but it does not give judges carte blanche to insist that
a monopolist alter its way of doing business whenever some
I The Court of Appeals also thought that respondent's complaint might
state a claim under a "monopoly leveraging" theory (a theory barely dis-
cussed by respondent, see Brief for Respondent 24, n. 10).  We disagree.
To the extent the Court of Appeals dispensed with a requirement that
there be a "dangerous probability of success" in monopolizing  a second
market, it erred, Spectrum Sports, Inc. v. McQuillan, 506 U. S. 447, 459
(1993).  In any event,  leveraging presupposes  anticompetitive  conduct,
which in this case could only be the refusal-to-deal claim we have rejected.

NEW PAGE

416  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO, LLP
STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment
other approach  might yield  greater  competition.  We  con-
clude that respondent's complaint fails to state a claim under
the Sherman Act.5
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is re-
versed,  and  the case  is  remanded  for further  proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS,  with whom JUSTICE  SOUTER and JUS-
TICE THOMAS join, concurring in the judgment.
In complex  cases it is usually  wise to begin by deciding
whether  the plaintiff has  standing to maintain  the action.
Respondent,  the  plaintiff in  this  case, is  a  local  telephone
service customer of AT&T.  Its complaint alleges that it has
received unsatisfactory service because Verizon has engaged
in conduct that adversely affects AT&T's ability to serve its
customers, in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act.  15 U. S. C.
§ 2.  Respondent seeks from Verizon treble damages, a rem-
edy that § 4 of the Clayton Act makes available to "any per-
son who  shall be injured  in his business  or  property."  15
U. S. C. § 15.  The threshold question presented by the com-
plaint is whether, assuming the truth of its allegations,  re-
spondent is a "person" within the meaning of § 4.
Respondent  would  unquestionably  be such  a "person" if
we interpreted the text of the statute literally.  But we have
eschewed  a  literal  reading  of § 4,  particularly  in  cases  in
which there is only an indirect relationship between the de-
fendant's alleged misconduct and the plaintiff's  asserted in-
jury.  Associated Gen. Contractors of Cal., Inc. v. Carpen-
ters, 459  U. S.  519,  529-535  (1983).  In  such  cases,  "the
importance of avoiding either the risk of duplicate recoveries
5 Our disposition makes it unnecessary to consider petitioner's alterna-
tive contention that respondent lacks antitrust standing.  See Steel Co. v.
Citizens for Better Environment, 523  U. S. 83, 97, and n. 2 (1998); Na-
tional Railroad Passenger Corporation v. National Assn. of Railroad
Passengers,4 14 U. S.4 53, 456 (1974).

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 540 U. S. 398 (2004)
STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment
on the one hand, or the danger of complex apportionment of
damages on the other," weighs heavily against a literal read-
ing of § 4.  Id.,  at 543-544.  Our  interpretation  of § 4 has
thus adhered  to Justice  Holmes' observation  that the "gen-
eral tendency  of the  law, in  regard to damages  at least, is
not to go beyond  the first  step."  Southern Pacific Co. v.
Darnell-TaenzerL  umber Co., 245 U. S. 531,  533 (1918).
I  would  not  go  beyond  the  first step  in  this  case.  Al-
though respondent contends  that its injuries  were, like the
plaintiff's  injuries  in  Blue Shield of Va. v. McCready, 457
U. S. 465, 479 (1982), "the very means by which...  [Verizon]
sought to achieve  its illegal  ends," it remains  the case  that
whatever  antitrust  injury  respondent  suffered  because  of
Verizon's  conduct  was  purely  derivative of the injury  that
AT&T suffered.  And for that reason, respondent's suit, un-
like McCready, runs both the risk of duplicative  recoveries
and the danger of complex apportionment of damages.  The
task of determining the monetary value of the harm caused
to respondent by AT&T's inferior service, the portion of that
harm  attributable  to  Verizon's  misconduct,  whether  all or
just some of such possible misconduct was prohibited by the
Sherman Act, and what offset, if any, should be allowed  to
make room for a recovery that would make AT&T whole, is
certain to be daunting.  AT&T, as the direct victim of Veri-
zon's alleged misconduct, is in a far better position than re-
spondent to vindicate  the public interest in enforcement  of
the antitrust laws.  Denying a remedy to AT&T's customer
is  not  likely  to  leave  a  significant  antitrust  violation  un-
detected or unremedied,  and will serve  the strong interest
"in keeping the scope of complex  antitrust trials within ju-
dicially  manageable  limits."  Associated Gen. Contractors,
459 U. S., at 543.
In  my judgment,  our  reasoning  in  Associated General
Contractors requires  us  to  reverse  the  judgment  of  the
Court of Appeals.  I would not decide  the merits of the § 2

NEW PAGE

418  VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS  INC. v. LAW OFFICES
OF CURTIS  V. TRINKO,  LLP
STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment
claim  unless  and  until  such  a claim  is  advanced  by  either
AT&T  or  a  similarly  situated  competitive  local  exchange
carrier.

NEW PAGE