546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
164  OCTOBER TERM, 2005 
Syllabus 
VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the eighth circuit 
No. 04–905.  Argued October 31, 2005—Decided January 10, 2006 
Reeder-Simco GMC, Inc. (Reeder), an authorized dealer of heavy-duty 
trucks manufactured by Volvo Trucks North America, Inc. (Volvo), gen­
erally sold those trucks through an industry-wide competitive bidding 
process, whereby the retail customer describes its speciﬁc product re­
quirements and invites bids from dealers it selects based on such factors 
as an existing relationship, geography, and reputation.  Once a Volvo 
dealer receives the customer’s speciﬁcations, it requests from Volvo a 
discount or “concession” off the wholesale price.  Volvo decides on a 
case-by-case basis whether to offer a concession.  The dealer then uses 
its Volvo discount in preparing its bid; it purchases trucks from Volvo 
only if and when the retail customer accepts its bid.  Reeder was one 
of many regional Volvo dealers.  Although nothing prohibits a Volvo 
dealer from bidding outside its territory, Reeder rarely bid against an­
other Volvo dealer.  In the atypical case in which a retail customer so­
licited a bid from more than one Volvo dealer, Volvo’s stated policy was 
to provide the same price concession to each dealer.  In 1997, after 
Volvo announced plans to enlarge the size of its dealers’ markets and to 
reduce by almost half the number of its dealers, Reeder learned that 
Volvo had given another dealer a price concession greater than the dis­
counts Reeder typically received. 
Reeder, suspecting it was one of the dealers Volvo sought to elimi­
nate, ﬁled this suit under, inter alia, § 2 of the Clayton Act, as amended 
by the Robinson-Patman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 13, alleging that its sales and 
proﬁts declined because Volvo offered other dealers more favorable 
price concessions.  At trial, Reeder presented evidence of two instances 
when it bid against another Volvo dealer for a particular sale.  In the 
ﬁrst, although Volvo initially offered Reeder a lower concession, Volvo 
ultimately  matched  the concession  offered  to  the competing  dealer. 
Neither dealer won the bid.  In the second, Volvo initially offered the 
two dealers the same concession, but increased the other dealer’s dis­
count after it, rather than Reeder, was selected.  Reeder dominantly 
relied on comparisons between concessions it received on four occasions 
when it bid successfully against non-Volvo dealers (and thus purchased 
Volvo trucks), with more favorable concessions other successful Volvo 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  165 
Syllabus 
dealers received in bidding processes in which Reeder did not partici­
pate.  Reeder also compared concessions Volvo offered it on several oc­
casions when it bid unsuccessfully against non-Volvo dealers (and there­
fore did not purchase Volvo trucks), with more favorable concessions 
accorded other Volvo dealers who gained contracts on which Reeder did 
not bid.  Reeder did not look for instances in which it received a larger 
concession than another Volvo dealer, but acknowledged it was “quite 
possible” that such instances occurred.  Nor did Reeder offer any sta­
tistical analysis revealing whether it was disfavored on average as com­
pared to other dealers.  The jury found a reasonable possibility that 
discriminatory pricing may have harmed competition between Reeder 
and other Volvo dealers, that Volvo’s discriminatory pricing injured 
Reeder, and that Reeder’s damages from Volvo’s Robinson-Patman vio­
lation exceeded $1.3 million.  The District Court awarded treble dam­
ages on the Robinson-Patman Act claim, and entered judgment. 
Afﬁrming, the Eighth Circuit, among other things, noted the thresh­
old requirement that Reeder show it was a “purchaser” within the Act’s 
meaning; rejected Volvo’s contention that competitive bidding situations 
do not give rise to Robinson-Patman claims; held that the four instances 
in which Reeder purchased trucks following successful bids rendered it 
a purchaser under the Act; determined that a jury could reasonably 
decide Reeder was in actual competition with favored dealers at the 
time price differentials were imposed; and held that the jury could prop­
erly ﬁnd Reeder had proved competitive injury based on evidence that 
(1) Volvo intended to reduce the number of its dealers, (2) Reeder 
lost one contract for which it competed with another Volvo dealer, 
(3) Reeder would have earned more proﬁts, had it received the conces­
sions given other dealers, and (4) Reeder’s sales declined over time. 
Held:	A manufacturer may not be held liable for secondary-line price dis­
crimination under the Robinson-Patman Act in the absence of a showing 
that the manufacturer discriminated between dealers competing to re­
sell its product to the same retail customer.  The Act does not reach 
the case Reeder presents.  It centrally addresses price discrimination 
in cases involving competition between different purchasers for resale 
of the purchased product.  Competition of that character ordinarily is 
not involved when a product subject to special order is sold through a 
customer-speciﬁc competitive bidding process.  Pp. 175–182. 
1. Section 2 was enacted to curb ﬁnancially powerful corporations’ 
use of localized price-cutting tactics that gravely impaired other sellers’ 
competitive position.  FTC v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 363 U. S. 536, 543, 
and n. 6.  Augmenting § 2, the Robinson-Patman Act targeted the per­
ceived harm to competition occasioned by the advent of large chain­

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
166  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Syllabus 
stores able to obtain lower prices for goods than smaller buyers could 
demand.  Robinson-Patman does not ban all price differences charged 
to  different  purchasers  of  similar  commodities,  but  proscribes  only 
“price discrimination [that] threatens to injure competition,” Brooke 
Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209, 220. 
Of the three categories of competitive injury that may give rise to a 
Robinson-Patman claim, secondary-line cases, like this one, involve price 
discrimination that injures competition among the discriminating sell­
er’s customers (here, Volvo’s dealerships).  Reeder has satisﬁed the 
Act’s  ﬁrst  two  requirements  for  establishing  secondary-line  injury: 
(1) The relevant Volvo truck sales were made in interstate commerce, 
and (2) the trucks were of “like grade and quality,” 15 U. S. C. §13(a). 
Because Reeder has not identiﬁed any differentially priced transaction 
in which it was both a “purchaser” under the Act and “in actual competi­
tion” with a favored purchaser for the same customer, see, e. g., FTC v. 
Sun Oil Co., 371 U. S. 505, 518–519, Volvo and amicus United States 
maintain that Reeder cannot satisfy the Act’s third and fourth require­
ments—that (3) Volvo “discriminate[d] in price between” Reeder and 
another purchaser of Volvo trucks, and (4) “the effect of such discrimina­
tion may be . . . to injure, destroy, or prevent competition” to the advan­
tage of a favored purchaser, i. e., one who “receive[d] the beneﬁt of such 
discrimination,” 15 U. S. C. § 13(a).  Absent actual competition with a 
favored Volvo dealer, Reeder cannot establish the competitive injury 
the Act requires.  Pp. 175–177. 
2. The injury to competition targeted by the Robinson-Patman Act is 
not established by the selective comparisons Reeder presented at trial: 
(1) comparisons of concessions Reeder received for four successful bids 
against  non-Volvo  dealers,  with  larger  concessions  other  successful 
Volvo dealers received for different sales on which Reeder did not bid 
(purchase-to-purchase comparisons); (2) comparisons of concessions of­
fered to Reeder in connection with several unsuccessful bids against 
non-Volvo dealers, with greater concessions accorded other Volvo deal­
ers who competed successfully for different sales on which Reeder did 
not bid (offer-to-purchase comparisons); and (3) comparisons of two occa­
sions on which Reeder bid against another Volvo dealer (head-to-head 
comparisons).  Pp. 177–180. 
(a) Because the purchase-to-purchase and offer-to-purchase com­
parisons fail to show that Volvo sold at a lower price to Reeder’s “com­
petitors,” those comparisons do not support an inference of competitive 
injury.  See Falls City Industries, Inc. v. Vanco Beverage, Inc., 460 
U. S. 428, 435.  Both types of comparisons fall short because in none 
of the discrete instances on which Reeder relied did it compete with 
beneﬁciaries of the alleged discrimination for the same customer.  Nor 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  167 
Syllabus 
did Reeder even attempt to show that the compared dealers were con­
sistently favored over it.  Reeder simply paired occasions on which it 
competed with non-Volvo dealers for a sale to Customer A with in­
stances in which other Volvo dealers competed with non-Volvo dealers 
for a sale to Customer B.  The compared incidents were tied to no sys­
tematic study and were separated in time by as many as seven months. 
This Court declines to permit an inference of competitive injury from 
evidence of such a mix-and-match, manipulable quality.  No similar risk 
of manipulation occurs in cases kin to the chainstore paradigm.  Here, 
there is no discrete “favored” dealer comparable to a chainstore or a 
large independent department store—at least, Reeder’s evidence is in­
sufﬁcient to support an inference that such a dealer exists.  For all that 
appears, Reeder, on occasion, might have gotten a better deal vis-a`-vis 
one or more of the dealers in its comparisons.  While Reeder may have 
competed with other Volvo dealers for the opportunity to bid on poten­
tial sales in a broad geographic area, competition at that initial stage is 
based on a variety of factors, including the existence vel non of a rela­
tionship between the potential bidder and the customer, geography, and 
reputation.  Once the customer has chosen the particular dealers from 
which it will solicit bids, the relevant market becomes limited to the 
needs and demands of the particular end user, with only a handful of 
dealers competing for the sale.  Volvo dealers’ bidding for sales in the 
same geographic area does not import that they in fact competed for 
the same customer-tailored sales.  Pp. 178–179. 
(b) Nor is a Robinson-Patman violation established by Reeder’s ev­
idence of two instances in which it competed head to head with another 
Volvo dealer.  When multiple dealers bid for the business of the same 
customer, only one dealer will win the business and thereafter purchase 
the supplier’s product to fulﬁll its contractual commitment.  Even as­
suming the Act applies to head-to-head transactions, Reeder did not 
establish that it was disfavored vis-a`-vis other Volvo dealers in the rare 
instances in which they competed for the same sale—let alone that the 
alleged discrimination was substantial.  Reeder’s evidence showed loss 
of only one sale to another Volvo dealer, a sale of 12 trucks that would 
have generated $30,000 in gross proﬁts for Reeder.  Per its policy, Volvo 
initially offered Reeder and the other dealer the same concession, but 
ultimately granted a larger concession to the other dealer after it had 
won the bid.  In the only other instance of head-to-head competition, 
Volvo increased Reeder’s initial discount to match the discount offered 
the other competing Volvo dealer, but neither dealer won the bid.  If 
price discrimination between two purchasers existed at all, it was not 
of such magnitude as to affect substantially competition between Reeder 
and the “favored” Volvo dealer.  Pp. 179–180. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
168  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Syllabus 
3. The Robinson-Patman Act signals no large departure from antitrust 
law’s primary concern, interbrand competition.  Even if the Act’s text 
could be construed as Reeder urges and the Eighth Circuit held, this 
Court would resist interpretation geared more to the protection of ex­
isting competitors than to the stimulation of competition.  There is no 
evidence here that any favored purchaser possesses market power, the 
allegedly favored purchasers are dealers with little resemblance to large 
independent department stores or chain operations, and the supplier’s 
selective price discounting fosters competition among suppliers of differ­
ent brands.  By declining to extend Robinson-Patman’s governance to 
such cases, the Court continues to construe the Act consistently with 
antitrust law’s broader policies.  Pp. 180–181. 
374 F. 3d 701, reversed and remanded. 
Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, 
C. J., and O’Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, and Breyer, JJ., joined. 
Stevens, J., ﬁled a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas, J., joined, post, 
p. 182. 
Roy T. Englert, Jr.,  argued the cause for petitioner.  With 
him on the briefs were Donald J. Russell, Max Huffman, 
and David L. Williams. 
Deputy Solicitor General Hungar argued the cause for 
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With 
him on the brief were Solicitor General Clement, Assistant 
Attorney General Pate, Deputy Assistant Attorney General 
Delrahim, Jonathan  L. Marcus, Catherine  G. O’Sullivan, 
and David Seidman. 
Carter G. Phillips argued the cause for respondent.  With 
him on the briefs were Richard D. Bernstein, Stephen B. 
Kinnaird, and Joe D. Byars, Jr.* 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the American 
Petroleum Institute by Carolyn F. Corwin, Harry M. Ng, and Douglas W. 
Morris; for the National Electrical Manufacturers Association by Clark 
R. Silcox; for the Truck Manufacturers Association et al. by G. Michael 
Halfenger; and for the Washington Legal Foundation by Daniel J. Popeo 
and David Price. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the National 
Automobile  Dealers  Association  by  Paul  R.  Norman  and  Catherine 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  169 
Opinion of the Court 
Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court. 
This  case  concerns  specially  ordered  products—heavy­
duty trucks supplied by Volvo Trucks North America, Inc. 
(Volvo), and sold by franchised dealers through a competitive 
bidding process.  In this process, the retail customer states 
its  speciﬁcations  and  invites  bids,  generally  from  dealers 
franchised by different manufacturers.  Only when a Volvo 
dealer’s bid proves successful does the dealer arrange to pur­
chase the trucks, which Volvo then builds to meet the cus­
tomer’s speciﬁcations. 
Reeder-Simco GMC, Inc. (Reeder), a Volvo dealer located 
in Fort Smith, Arkansas, commenced suit against Volvo al­
leging that Reeder’s sales and proﬁts declined because Volvo 
offered other dealers more favorable price concessions than 
those offered to Reeder.  Reeder sought redress for its al­
leged losses under § 2 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, as 
amended by the Robinson-Patman Price Discrimination Act, 
49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C. § 13 (Robinson-Patman Act or Act), 
and the Arkansas Franchise Practices Act, Ark. Code Ann. 
§ 4–72–201 et seq. (2001).  Reeder prevailed at trial and on 
appeal on both claims. 
We  granted  review  on  the  federal  claim  to  resolve  the 
question whether a manufacturer offering its dealers differ­
ent wholesale prices may be held liable for price discrimina­
tion proscribed by Robinson-Patman, absent a showing that 
the manufacturer discriminated between dealers contempo­
raneously competing to resell to the same retail customer. 
While state law designed to protect franchisees may provide, 
and in this case has provided, a remedy for the dealer ex­
posed to conduct of the kind Reeder alleged, the Robinson-
Patman Act, we hold, does not reach the case Reeder pre­
sents.  The Act centrally addresses price discrimination in 
cases involving competition between different purchasers for 
Cetrangolo; and for the North American Equipment Dealers Association 
et al. by Wayne A. Mack. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
170  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
resale of the purchased product.  Competition of that char­
acter ordinarily is not involved when a product subject to 
special order is sold through a customer-speciﬁc competitive 
bidding process. 
I 
Volvo manufactures heavy-duty trucks.  Reeder sells new 
and used trucks, including heavy-duty trucks.  374 F. 3d 701, 
704  (CA8  2004).  Reeder  became  an  authorized  dealer  of 
Volvo trucks in 1995, pursuant to a ﬁve-year franchise agree­
ment  that  provided  for  automatic  one-year  extensions  if 
Reeder met sales objectives set by Volvo.  Ibid.  Reeder 
generally sold Volvo’s trucks through a competitive bidding 
process.  Ibid.  In  this  process,  the  retail  customer  de­
scribes  its  speciﬁc  product  requirements  and  invites  bids 
from several dealers it selects.  The customer’s “decision to 
request a bid from a particular dealer or to allow a particular 
dealer to bid is controlled by such factors as an existing rela­
tionship,  geography,  reputation,  and  cold  calling  or  other 
marketing strategies initiated by individual dealers.”  Id., 
at  719  (Hansen,  J.,  concurring  in  part  and  dissenting  in 
part). 
Once a Volvo dealer receives the customer’s speciﬁcations, 
it turns to Volvo and requests a discount or “concession” off 
the wholesale price (set at 80% of the published retail price). 
Id., at 704.  It is common practice in the industry for manu­
facturers to offer customer-speciﬁc discounts to their dealers. 
Ibid.; App. 334, 337.  Volvo decides on a case-by-case basis 
whether to offer a discount and, if so, what the discount rate 
will be, taking account of such factors as industry-wide de­
mand and whether the retail customer has, historically, pur­
chased a different brand of trucks.  App. 348–349, 333–334.1 
The dealer then uses the discount offered by Volvo in prepar­
1 To shield its ability to compete with other manufacturers, Volvo keeps 
conﬁdential its precise method for calculating concessions offered to deal­
ers.  374 F. 3d 701, 704–705 (CA8 2004); App. 337–338. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  171 
Opinion of the Court 
ing its bid; it purchases trucks from Volvo only if and when 
the retail customer accepts its bid.  Ibid. 
Reeder was one of many Volvo dealers, each assigned by 
Volvo to a geographic territory.  Reeder’s territory encom­
passed ten counties in Arkansas and two in Oklahoma.  374 
F. 3d, at 709.  Although nothing prohibits a Volvo dealer 
from bidding outside its territory, ibid., Reeder rarely bid 
against  another  Volvo  dealer,  see  id.,  at  705;  5  App.  in 
No. 02–2462 (CA8), pp. 1621–1622 (hereinafter C. A. App.). 
In the atypical event that the same retail customer solicited 
a bid from more than one Volvo dealer, Volvo’s stated policy 
was to provide the same price concession to each dealer com­
peting head to head for the same sale.  4 id., at 1161–1162; 
5 id., at 1619, 1621. 
In 1997, Volvo announced a program it called “Volvo Vi­
sion,” in which the company addressed problems it faced in 
the market for heavy trucks, among them, the company’s 
assessment that it had too many dealers.  Volvo projected 
enlarging the size of its dealers’ markets and reducing the 
number of dealers from 146 to 75.  374 F. 3d, at 705.  Coinci­
dentally, Reeder learned that Volvo had given another dealer 
a price concession greater than the concessions Reeder typi­
cally received, and “Reeder came to suspect it was one of the 
dealers Volvo sought to eliminate.”  Ibid.  Reeder ﬁled suit 
against Volvo in February 2000, alleging losses attributable 
to Volvo’s violation of the Arkansas Franchise Practices Act 
and the Robinson-Patman Act. 
At  trial,  Reeder’s  vice-president,  William  E.  Heck,  ac­
knowledged that Volvo’s policy was to offer equal conces­
sions to Volvo dealers bidding against one another for a par­
ticular contract, but he contended that the policy “was not 
executed.”  4 C. A. App. 1162.  Reeder presented evidence 
concerning two instances over the ﬁve-year course of its au­
thorized  dealership  when  Reeder bid  against  other  Volvo 
dealers  for  a  particular  sale.  374 F.  3d,  at  705,  708–709. 
One of the two instances involved Reeder’s bid on a sale to 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
172  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
Tommy Davidson Trucking.  4 C. A. App. 1267–1268.  Volvo 
initially offered Reeder a concession of 17%, which Volvo, 
unprompted, increased to 18.1% and then, one week later, to 
18.9%, to match the concession Volvo had offered to another 
of its dealers.  5 id., at 1268–1272.  Neither dealer won the 
bid.  Id.,  at  1272.  The  other  instance  involved  Hiland 
Dairy, which solicited bids from both Reeder and Southwest 
Missouri Truck Center.  Id., at 1626–1627.  Per its written 
policy, Volvo offered the two dealers the same concession, 
and Hiland selected Southwest Missouri, a dealer from which 
Hiland had previously purchased trucks.  Ibid.  After se­
lecting  Southwest  Missouri,  Hiland  insisted  on  the  price 
Southwest Missouri had bid prior to a general increase in 
Volvo’s prices; Volvo obliged by increasing the size of the 
discount.  Id., at 1627.  See also id., at 1483–1488; 374 F. 3d, 
at 720 (Hansen, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). 
Reeder  dominantly  relied  on  comparisons  between  con­
cessions Volvo offered when Reeder bid against non-Volvo 
dealers, with concessions accorded to other Volvo dealers 
similarly bidding against non-Volvo dealers for other sales. 
Reeder’s evidence compared concessions Reeder received on 
four  occasions  when  it  bid  successfully  against  non-Volvo 
dealers (and thus purchased Volvo trucks), with more favor­
able concessions other successful Volvo dealers received in 
connection with bidding processes in which Reeder did not 
participate.  Id., at 705–706.  Reeder also compared conces­
sions offered by Volvo on several occasions when Reeder bid 
unsuccessfully against non-Volvo dealers (and therefore did 
not purchase Volvo trucks), with more favorable concessions 
received  by  other  Volvo  dealers  who  gained  contracts  on 
which Reeder did not bid.  Id., at 706–707. 
Reeder’s vice-president, Heck, testiﬁed that Reeder did 
not look for instances in which it received a larger concession 
than another Volvo dealer, although he acknowledged it was 
“quite possible” that such instances occurred.  5 C. A. App. 
1462.  Nor did Reeder endeavor to determine by any sta­

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  173 
Opinion of the Court 
tistical analysis whether Reeder was disfavored on average 
as  compared  to  another  dealer  or  set  of  dealers.  Id.,  at 
1462–1464. 
The jury found that there was a reasonable possibility that 
discriminatory  pricing  may  have  harmed  competition  be­
tween Reeder and other Volvo truck dealers, and that Vol­
vo’s discriminatory pricing injured Reeder.  App. 480–486. 
It further found that Reeder’s damages from Volvo’s 
Robinson-Patman Act violation exceeded $1.3 million.  Id., 
at 486.2  The District Court summarily denied Volvo’s mo­
tion for judgment as a matter of law and the company’s alter­
native  motion for  new  trial or  remittitur, awarded  treble 
damages  on  the  Robinson-Patman Act  claim,  and  entered 
judgment. 
A  divided  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Eighth  Circuit  af­
ﬁrmed.  The appeals court noted that, “as a threshold mat­
ter[,] Reeder had to show [that] it was a ‘purchaser’ within 
the meaning of the [Act],” 374 F. 3d, at 708, i. e., that “there 
were actual sales at two different prices[,] . . . a sale to 
[Reeder] and a sale to another Volvo dealer,” id., at 707–708. 
Rejecting Volvo’s contention that competitive bidding situa­
tions do not give rise to claims under the Robinson-Patman 
Act,  id.,  at  708–709,  the  Court  of  Appeals  observed  that 
Reeder was “more than an unsuccessful bidder,” id., at 709. 
The  four  instances  in  which  Reeder  “actually  purchased 
Volvo  trucks  following  successful  bids  on  contracts,”  the 
court  concluded,  sufﬁced  to  render  Reeder  a  purchaser 
within the meaning of the Act.  Ibid. 
The Court of Appeals next determined that a jury could 
reasonably decide that Reeder was “in actual competition” 
with  favored  dealers.  Ibid.  “[A]s  of  the  time  the  price 
differential was imposed,” the court reasoned, “the favored 
2The jury also awarded Reeder damages of $513,750 on Reeder’s state­
law claim under the Arkansas Franchise Practices Act.  No question is 
before us respecting that claim, which trained on Volvo’s alleged design to 
eliminate Reeder as a Volvo dealer.  See supra, at 171. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
174  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
and disfavored purchasers competed at the same functional 
level . . . and w  ithin  the  same geographic market.”  Ibid. 
(quoting  Best  Brands  Beverage,  Inc.  v.  Falstaff  Brewing 
Corp.,  842 F. 2d 578, 585 (CA2 1987)).  The court further 
held that the jury could properly ﬁnd from the evidence that 
Reeder had proved competitive injury from price discrimina­
tion.  Speciﬁcally,  the  court  pointed  to  evidence  showing 
that (1) Volvo intended to reduce the number of its dealers; 
(2) Reeder lost the Hiland Dairy contract, for which it com­
peted head to head with another Volvo dealer; (3) Reeder 
would have earned more proﬁts, had it received the conces­
sions other dealers received; and (4) Reeder’s sales had de­
clined over a period of time.  374 F. 3d, at 711–712.  The 
court also afﬁrmed the award of treble damages to Reeder. 
Id., at 712–714. 
Judge Hansen dissented as to the Robinson-Patman Act 
claim.  “Traditional [Robinson-Patman Act] cases,” he ob­
served, “involve sellers and purchasers that carry inventory 
or deal in fungible goods.”  Id., at 718.  The majority, Judge 
Hansen commented, “attempt[ed] to ﬁt a square peg into a 
round hole,” ibid., when it extended the Act’s reach to the 
marketplace  for  heavy-duty  trucks,  where  “special-order 
products are sold to individual, pre-identiﬁed customers only 
after competitive bidding,” ibid.  There may be competition 
among dealers for the opportunity to bid on potential sales, 
he noted, but “[o]nce bidding begins, . . . the relevant market 
becomes limited to the needs and demands of a particular 
end user, with only a handful of dealers competing for the 
ultimate sale.”  Id., at 719.  Violation of the Act, in Judge 
Hansen’s  view,  could  not  be  predicated  on  the  instances 
Reeder identiﬁed in which it was a purchaser, for “there was 
no actual competition between” Reeder and another Volvo 
dealer at the time of Reeder’s purchases.  Ibid.  “Without 
proof of actual competition” for the same customer when the 
requisite purchases were made, he concluded, “Reeder can­

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  175 
Opinion of the Court 
not demonstrate a reasonable possibility of competitive in­
jury.”  Ibid. 
We granted certiorari, 544 U. S. 903 (2005), to resolve this 
question: May a manufacturer be held liable for secondary­
line price discrimination under the Robinson-Patman Act in 
the absence of a showing that the manufacturer discrimi­
nated between dealers competing to resell its product to the 
same retail customer?  Satisﬁed that the Court of Appeals 
erred in answering that question in the afﬁrmative, we re­
verse the Eighth Circuit’s judgment. 
II 
Section 2, “when originally enacted as part of the Clayton 
Act in 1914, was born of a desire by Congress to curb the use 
by ﬁnancially powerful corporations of localized price-cutting 
tactics which had gravely impaired the competitive position 
of other sellers.”  FTC v.  Anheuser-Busch, Inc., 363 U. S. 
536, 543, and n. 6 (1960) (citing H. R. Rep. No. 627, 63d Cong., 
2d  Sess.,  8  (1914);  S.  Rep.  No.  698,  63d  Cong.,  2d  Sess., 
2–4 (1914)).  Augmenting that provision in 1936 with the 
Robinson-Patman Act, Congress sought to target the per­
ceived harm to competition occasioned by powerful buyers, 
rather than sellers; speciﬁcally, Congress responded to the 
advent of large chainstores, enterprises with the clout to ob­
tain lower prices for goods than smaller buyers could de­
mand.  See 14 H. Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law ¶ 2302, p. 11 
(2d  ed.  2006)  (hereinafter  Hovenkamp);  P.  Areeda  &  L. 
Kaplow, Antitrust Analysis ¶ 602, pp. 908–909 (5th ed. 1997) 
(hereinafter Areeda).  The Act provides, in relevant part: 
“It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in com­
merce . . . to discriminate in price between different pur­
chasers of commodities of like grade and quality, . . . 
where the effect of such discrimination may be substan­
tially to lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly 
in any line of commerce, or to injure, destroy, or prevent 
competition with any person who either grants or know­

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
176  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
ingly receives the beneﬁt of such discrimination, or with 
customers of either of them . . . .”   15 U.S .C . §1 3(a).  
Pursuant to § 4 of the Clayton Act, a private plaintiff may 
recover threefold for actual injury sustained as a result of 
a  violation  of  the  Robinson-Patman  Act.  See  15  U. S. C. 
§ 15(a); J. Truett Payne Co. v.  Chrysler Motors Corp., 451 
U. S. 557, 562 (1981). 
Mindful of the purposes of the Act and of the antitrust 
laws  generally,  we  have  explained  that  Robinson-Patman 
does not “ban all price differences charged to different pur­
chasers of commodities of like grade and quality,” Brooke 
Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 
209, 220 (1993) (internal quotation marks omitted); rather, 
the Act proscribes “price discrimination only to the extent 
that it threatens to injure competition,” ibid.  Our decisions 
describe  three  categories  of  competitive  injury  that  may 
give rise to a Robinson-Patman Act claim: primary line, sec­
ondary line, and tertiary line.  Primary-line cases entail con­
duct—most  conspicuously,  predatory  pricing—that  injures 
competition at the level of the discriminating seller and its 
direct competitors.  See, e. g., id., at 220–222; see also Ho­
venkamp ¶ 2301a, pp. 4–6.  Secondary-line cases, of which 
this is one, involve price discrimination that injures competi­
tion among the discriminating seller’s customers (here, Vol­
vo’s dealerships); cases in this category typically refer to “fa­
vored” and “disfavored” purchasers.  See ibid.; Texaco Inc. 
v. Hasbrouck, 496 U. S. 543, 558, n. 15 (1990).  Tertiary-line 
cases involve injury to competition at the level of the pur­
chaser’s customers.  See Areeda ¶ 601e, p. 907. 
To  establish  the  secondary-line  injury of  which  it  com­
plains, Reeder had to show that (1) the relevant Volvo truck 
sales were made in interstate commerce; (2) the trucks were 
of “like grade and quality”; (3) Volvo “discriminate[d] in price 
between” Reeder and another purchaser of Volvo trucks; and 
(4) “the effect of such discrimination may be . . . to injure, 
destroy, or prevent competition” to the advantage of a fa­

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  177 
Opinion of the Court 
vored purchaser, i. e., one who “receive[d] the beneﬁt of such 
discrimination.”  15 U. S. C. § 13(a).  It is undisputed that 
Reeder  has  satisﬁed  the  ﬁrst  and  second  requirements. 
Volvo and the United States, as amicus curiae, maintain that 
Reeder cannot satisfy the third and fourth requirements, be­
cause  Reeder  has  not  identiﬁed  any  differentially  priced 
transaction in which it was both a “purchaser” under the Act 
and “in actual competition” with a favored purchaser for the 
same customer. 
A hallmark of the requisite competitive injury, our deci­
sions indicate, is the diversion of sales or proﬁts from a disfa­
vored purchaser to a favored purchaser.  FTC v.  Sun Oil 
Co., 371 U. S. 505, 518–519 (1963) (evidence showed patronage 
shifted from disfavored dealers to favored dealers); Falls 
City Industries, Inc. v. Vanco Beverage, Inc., 460 U. S. 428, 
437–438, and n. 8 (1983) (complaint “supported by direct evi­
dence of diverted sales”).  We have also recognized that a 
permissible inference of competitive injury may arise from 
evidence  that  a  favored  competitor  received  a  signiﬁcant 
price reduction over a substantial period of time.  See FTC 
v.  Morton Salt Co., 334 U. S. 37, 49–51 (1948); Falls City 
Industries,  460  U. S.,  at  435.  Absent  actual  competition 
with a favored Volvo dealer, however, Reeder cannot estab­
lish the competitive injury required under the Act. 
III 
The evidence Reeder offered at trial falls into three cate­
gories: (1) comparisons of concessions Reeder received for 
four successful bids against non-Volvo dealers, with larger 
concessions other successful Volvo dealers received for dif­
ferent  sales  on  which  Reeder  did  not  bid  (purchase­
to-purchase  comparisons);  (2)  comparisons  of  concessions 
offered to Reeder in connection with several unsuccessful 
bids  against  non-Volvo  dealers,  with  greater  concessions 
accorded  other  Volvo  dealers  who  competed  successfully 
for different sales on which Reeder did not bid (offer-to­

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
178  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
purchase comparisons); and (3) evidence of two occasions on 
which Reeder bid against another Volvo dealer (head-to-head 
comparisons).  The Court of Appeals concluded that Reeder 
demonstrated  competitive  injury  under  the  Act  because 
Reeder competed with favored purchasers “at the same func­
tional level . . . and within the same geographic market.” 
374 F. 3d, at 709 (quoting Best Brands, 842 F. 2d, at 585).  As 
we see it, however, selective comparisons of the kind Reeder 
presented do not show the injury to competition targeted by 
the Robinson-Patman Act. 
A 
Both the purchase-to-purchase and the offer-to-purchase 
comparisons fall short, for in none of the discrete instances 
on which Reeder relied did Reeder compete with beneﬁciar­
ies  of  the  alleged  discrimination  for  the  same  customer. 
Nor did Reeder even attempt to show that the compared 
dealers were consistently favored vis-a`-vis Reeder.  Reeder 
simply paired occasions on which it competed with non-Volvo 
dealers for a sale to Customer A with instances in which 
other Volvo dealers competed with non-Volvo dealers for a 
sale to Customer B.  The compared incidents were tied to 
no systematic study and were separated in time by as many 
as seven months.  See 374 F. 3d, at 706, 710. 
We decline to permit an inference of competitive injury 
from evidence of such a mix-and-match, manipulable quality. 
See Tr. of Oral Arg. 34–35, 55.  No similar risk of manipula­
tion occurs in cases kin to the chainstore paradigm.  Here, 
there is no discrete “favored” dealer comparable to a chain­
store  or  a  large  independent  department  store—at  least, 
Reeder’s evidence is insufﬁcient to support an inference of 
such a dealer or set of dealers.  For all we know, Reeder, on 
occasion, might have gotten a better deal vis-a`-vis one or 
more of the dealers in its comparisons.  See supra, at 172. 
Reeder may have competed with other Volvo dealers for 
the opportunity  to bid  on potential sales  in a  broad geo­
graphic area.  At that initial stage, however, competition is 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  179 
Opinion of the Court 
not affected by differential pricing; a dealer in the competi­
tive bidding process here at issue approaches Volvo for a 
price concession only after it has been selected by a retail 
customer to submit a bid.  Competition for an opportunity 
to bid, we earlier observed, is based on a variety of factors, 
including the existence vel non of a relationship between the 
potential bidder and the customer, geography, and reputa­
tion.  See supra, at 170.3  We reiterate in this regard an 
observation  made  by  Judge  Hansen,  dissenting  from  the 
Eighth Circuit’s Robinson-Patman holding: Once a retail cus­
tomer has chosen the particular dealers from which it will 
solicit  bids,  “the  relevant  market  becomes  limited  to  the 
needs and demands of a particular end user, with only a 
handful  of  dealers  competing  for  the  ultimate  sale.”  374 
F. 3d, at 719.  That Volvo dealers may bid for sales in the 
same geographic area does not import that they in fact com­
peted  for  the  same  customer-tailored  sales.  In  sum,  the 
purchase-to-purchase and offer-to-purchase comparisons fail 
to show that Volvo sold at a lower price to Reeder’s “compet­
itors,” hence those comparisons do not support an inference 
of competitive injury.  See Falls City Industries, 460 U. S., 
at 435 (inference of competitive injury under Morton Salt 
arises from “proof of a substantial price discrimination be­
tween competing purchasers over time” (emphasis added)). 
B 
Reeder did offer evidence of two instances in which it com­
peted head to head with another Volvo dealer.  See supra, 
at 171–172.  When multiple dealers bid for the business of 
the same customer, only one dealer will win the business 
and thereafter purchase the supplier’s product to fulﬁll its 
3 A dealer’s reputation for securing favorable concessions, we recognize, 
may inﬂuence the customer’s bidding invitations.  Cf. post, at 183, n. 2. 
We do not pursue that point here, however, because Reeder did not 
present—or even look for—evidence that Volvo consistently disfavored 
Reeder while it consistently favored certain other dealers.  See supra, 
at 172–173. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
180  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
contractual commitment.  Because Robinson-Patman “pro­
hibits only discrimination ‘between different purchasers,’” 
Brief for Petitioner 26 (quoting 15 U. S. C. § 13(a); emphasis 
added), Volvo and the  United States argue, the Act does 
not reach markets characterized by competitive bidding and 
special-order sales, as opposed to sales from inventory.  See 
Brief for Petitioner 27; Brief for United States as Amicus 
Curiae 9, 17–20.  We need not decide that question today. 
Assuming the Act applies to the head-to-head transactions, 
Reeder  did  not  establish  that  it  was  disfavored  vis-a`-vis 
other Volvo dealers in the rare instances in which they com­
peted for the same sale—let alone that the alleged discrimi­
nation  was  substantial.  See  1  ABA  Section  of  Antitrust 
Law, Antitrust Law Developments 478–479 (5th ed. 2002) 
(“No inference of injury to competition is permitted when 
the discrimination is not substantial.” (collecting cases)). 
Reeder’s evidence showed loss of only one sale to another 
Volvo dealer, a sale of 12 trucks that would have generated 
$30,000 in gross proﬁts for Reeder.  374 F. 3d, at 705.  Per 
its policy, Volvo initially offered Reeder and the other dealer 
the same concession.  Volvo ultimately granted a larger con­
cession to the other dealer, but only after it had won the 
bid.  In the only other instance of head-to-head competition 
Reeder identiﬁed, Volvo increased Reeder’s initial 17% dis­
count to 18.9%, to match the discount offered to the other 
competing Volvo dealer; neither dealer won the bid.  See 
supra, at 172.  In short, if price discrimination between two 
purchasers existed at all, it was not of such magnitude as 
to affect substantially competition between Reeder and the 
“favored” Volvo dealer. 
IV 
Interbrand competition, our opinions afﬁrm, is the “pri­
mary concern of antitrust law.”  Continental T. V., Inc. v. 
GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 51–52, n. 19 (1977).  The 
Robinson-Patman Act signals no large departure from that 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  181 
Opinion of the Court 
main concern.  Even if the Act’s text could be construed in 
the manner urged by Reeder and embraced by the Court of 
Appeals, we would resist interpretation geared more to the 
protection of existing competitors than to the stimulation of 
competition.4  In the case before us, there is no evidence 
that any favored purchaser possesses market power, the al­
legedly  favored  purchasers  are  dealers  with  little  resem­
blance to large independent department stores or chain oper­
ations, and the supplier’s selective price discounting fosters 
competition among suppliers of different brands.  See id., at 
51–52 (observing that the market impact of a vertical prac­
tice, such as a change in a supplier’s distribution system, may 
be a “simultaneous reduction of intrabrand competition and 
stimulation of interbrand competition”).  By declining to ex­
tend Robinson-Patman’s governance to such cases, we con­
tinue to construe the Act “consistently with broader policies 
of  the  antitrust  laws.”  Brooke  Group,  509  U. S.,  at  220 
(quoting Great Atlantic & Paciﬁc Tea Co. v. FTC, 440 U. S. 
69, 80, n. 13 (1979)); see Automatic Canteen Co. of America 
v. FTC, 346 U. S. 61, 63 (1953) (cautioning against Robinson-
Patman constructions that “extend beyond the prohibitions 
of the Act and, in doing so, help give rise to a price uniform­
ity and rigidity in open conﬂict with the purposes of other 
antitrust legislation”).5 
4 The dissent assails Volvo’s decision to reduce the number of its dealers. 
Post, at 183.  But Robinson-Patman does not bar a manufacturer from 
restructuring its distribution networks to improve the efﬁciency of its op­
erations.  If Volvo did not honor its obligations to Reeder as its fran­
chisee, “[a]ny remedy . . . lies in state laws addressing unfair competition 
and the rights of franchisees, not in the Robinson-Patman Act.”  Brief 
for United States as Amicus Curiae 28. 
5 See also Hovenkamp ¶ 2333c, p. 109 (commenting that the Eighth Cir­
cuit’s expansive interpretation “views the [Robinson-Patman Act] as a 
guarantee of equal proﬁt margins on sales actually made,” and thereby 
exposes manufacturers to treble damages unless they “charge uniform 
prices to their dealers”). 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
182  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
* * * 
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court of Ap­
peals for the Eighth Circuit is reversed, and the case is re­
manded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. 
It is so ordered. 
Justice  Stevens,  with  whom  Justice  Thomas  joins, 
dissenting. 
Franchised dealers who sell Volvo trucks, like those who 
sell automobiles, farm equipment, washing machines, and a 
variety of other expensive items, routinely engage in negoti­
ations with prospective purchasers.  Sometimes the pros­
pect is simultaneously negotiating with two Volvo dealers, 
sometimes with a Volvo dealer and a dealer representing an­
other manufacturer, and still other times a satisﬁed customer 
who is generally familiar with the options available in a com­
petitive market may negotiate with only one dealer at a time. 
Until today, the Robinson-Patman Act’s prohibition of price 
discrimination1 would have protected the dealer’s ability to 
negotiate in all those situations.  Today, however, by adopt­
ing a novel, transaction-speciﬁc concept of competition, the 
Court eliminates that statutory protection in all but those 
rare situations in which a prospective purchaser is negotiat­
ing with two Volvo dealers at the same time. 
I 
Setting aside for the moment the fact that the case in­
volves goods specially ordered for particular customers 
1 Section 2 of the Clayton Act, as amended by § 1 of the Robinson-
Patman Act, provides in relevant part: 
“It shall be unlawful for any person...to discriminate in price between 
different purchasers of commodities of like grade and quality . . . where the 
effect of such discrimination may be substantially to lessen competition or 
tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce, or to injure, destroy, 
or prevent competition with any person who either grants or knowingly 
receives the beneﬁt of such discrimination, or with customers of either of 
them.”  38 Stat. 730, as amended, 49 Stat. 1526, 15 U. S. C. § 13(a). 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  183 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
rather than goods stocked in inventory, the case is a rather 
ordinary  Robinson-Patman  suit.  Respondent  Reeder  al­
leged a violation of the Act; the parties submitted a good deal 
of conﬂicting evidence to the jury; the trial judge properly 
instructed the jurors on the elements of price discrimination, 
competitive injury, and damages; and the jury returned a 
verdict resolving all issues in Reeder’s favor.  The Court 
of Appeals found no error in either the instructions or the 
sufﬁciency of the evidence.  374 F. 3d 701 (CA8 2004). 
Two issues of fact bear particular mention. 
First, Volvo does not challenge the jury’s ﬁnding of price 
discrimination.  Reeder’s theory of the case was that Volvo 
sought to cut back its number of dealers and deemed Reeder 
expendable.  To avoid possible violations of franchise agree­
ments and state laws, Volvo chose to accomplish this goal by 
offering Reeder worse prices than other regional dealers. 
Reeder introduced substantial evidence of this theory.  It 
showed that Volvo had an explicit business strategy, known 
as the “Volvo Vision,” of “fewer dealers, larger markets.” 
App. 34.  It showed that Volvo could afford to lose sales as 
it squeezed dealers out, since the boom years of the late 
1990’s left Volvo with about as many orders as it could ﬁll. 
Id., at 256–257.  And it showed that Volvo frequently gave 
worse prices to it than to other regional dealers.  On at least 
four occasions, Volvo sold trucks to Reeder at signiﬁcantly 
higher prices than to other dealers buying similar trucks 
around the same time.2  To give one example, in the spring 
of 1998 Volvo sold 20 trucks to Reeder at a 9% concession, 
but sold similar trucks to a Texas dealer at a 12.3% conces­
sion.  Id., at 132–134.  This left Reeder paying $2,606 more 
per truck.  Id., at 134.  Although the Court chides Reeder 
2 Additionally, on more than 12 other occasions, Volvo offered worse 
deals to Reeder than it gave to dealers who made comparable purchases. 
Arguably due to Volvo’s stingy concessions, Reeder failed to close with its 
customers in these instances and thus never ended up buying the trucks 
at issue from Volvo. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
184  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
for failing to perform statistical analyses, see ante, at 172– 
173, 178, the jury clearly had a sufﬁcient basis for ﬁnding 
price discrimination.  It could infer that Volvo’s pricing poli­
cies were comparable to a secret catalog listing one set of 
low prices for its “A” dealers and a higher set for its “B” 
dealers  like  Reeder,  with  an  exception  providing  for  the 
same prices where an “A” dealer and a “B” dealer were en­
gaged in negotiations with the same customer at the same 
time. 
Second, the jury found that the favored dealers at issue 
in these comparisons were competitive players in the same 
geographic market as Reeder.  This conclusion is implicit in 
the jury’s ﬁnding of competitive injury, since the jury in­
struction on that element required Reeder to prove 
“a substantial difference in price in sales by defendant 
to plaintiff and other competing Volvo dealers over a 
signiﬁcant  period  of  time.  This  requires  plaintiff  to 
show that it and the other Volvo dealer(s) were retail 
dealers within the same geographic market and that the 
effect of the price differential was to allow the other 
Volvo dealer(s) to draw sales or proﬁts away from plain­
tiff.”  App. 480, Instruction No. 18. 
Volvo does not dispute that the evidence was sufﬁcient to 
support the jury ﬁnding that Reeder and the favored dealers 
operated in the same geographic market.3  Volvo’s restraint 
is wise, as Reeder offered evidence that truck buyers are 
unsurprisingly mobile, that it delivered trucks to purchasers 
throughout the region, and that customers would sometimes 
solicit bids from more than one regional Volvo dealer. 
3 Similarly, and despite its selective discussion of the extensive eviden­
tiary record, ante, at 170–173, the Court does not question the sufﬁciency 
of the evidence supporting the jury’s ﬁnding that Volvo engaged in price 
discrimination against Reeder relative to other regional Volvo dealers for 
a signiﬁcant period of time. 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  185 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
II 
For decades, juries have routinely inferred the requisite 
injury to competition under the Robinson-Patman Act from 
the fact that a manufacturer sells goods to one retailer at a 
higher price than to its competitors.  This rule dates back 
to the following discussion of competitive injury in Justice 
Black’s opinion for the Court in FTC v. Morton Salt Co., 334 
U. S. 37 (1948): 
“It is argued that the ﬁndings fail to show that respond­
ent’s discriminatory discounts had in fact caused injury 
to  competition.  There  are  speciﬁc ﬁndings  that  such 
injuries  had  resulted  from  respondent’s  discounts,  al­
though the statute does not require the Commission to 
ﬁnd that injury has actually resulted.  The statute re­
quires no more than that the effect of the prohibited 
price  discriminations  ‘may  be  substantially  to  lessen 
competition . . . or to injure, destroy, or prevent competi­
tion.’  After a careful consideration of this provision of 
the Robinson-Patman Act, we have said that ‘the statute 
does not require that the discriminations must in fact 
have harmed competition, but only that there is a rea­
sonable possibility that they “may” have such an effect.’ 
Corn Products Co. v. Federal Trade Comm’n, 324 U. S. 
726, 742.  Here the Commission found what would ap­
pear to be obvious, that the competitive opportunities of 
certain merchants were injured when they had to pay 
respondent substantially more for their goods than their 
competitors  had  to  pay.  The  ﬁndings  are  adequate.” 
Id., at 45–47 (footnote omitted). 
We have treated as competitors those who sell “in a single, 
interstate  retail  market.”  Falls  City  Industries,  Inc.  v. 
Vanco Beverage, Inc., 460 U. S. 428, 436 (1983); cf. Tampa 
Elec. Co. v.  Nashville Coal Co., 365 U. S. 320, 327 (1961). 
Under this approach—uncontroversial until today—Reeder 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
186  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
would readily prevail.  There is ample evidence that Volvo 
charged Reeder higher prices than it charged to competing 
dealers in the same market over a period of many months. 
That those higher prices impaired Reeder’s ability to com­
pete with those dealers is just as obvious as the injury to 
competition described by the Court in Morton Salt. 
Volvo nonetheless argues that no competitive injury could 
have occurred because it never discriminated against Reeder 
when Reeder and another Volvo dealer were seeking conces­
sions with regard to the same ultimate customer.  In Volvo’s 
view, each transaction was a separate market, one deﬁned 
by the customer and those dealers whom it had asked for 
bids.  For  each  speciﬁc  customer  who  has  solicited  bids, 
Reeder’s only “competitors” were the other dealers making 
bids.  Accordingly, if none of these other dealers were Volvo 
dealers, then Reeder suffered no competitive harm (relative 
to other Volvo dealers) when Volvo gave it a discriminatorily 
high price. 
Unlike the Court, I cannot accept Volvo’s vision.  Nothing 
in the statute or in our precedent suggests that “competi­
tion” is evaluated by a transaction-speciﬁc inquiry, and such 
an approach makes little sense.  It requires us to ignore the 
fact that competition among truck dealers is a continuing 
war waged over time rather than a series of wholly discrete 
events.  Each time Reeder managed to resell trucks it had 
purchased  at  discriminatorily  high  prices,  it  was  forced 
either to accept lower proﬁt margins than were available to 
favored Volvo dealers or to pass on the higher costs to its 
customers (who then might well go to a different dealer the 
next time).  And we have long indicated that lost proﬁts rel­
ative to a competitor are a proper basis for permitting the 
Morton Salt inference.  See, e. g., Falls City Industries, 460 
U. S., at 435 (noting that to overcome the Morton Salt infer­
ence, a defendant needs “evidence breaking the causal con­
nection between a price differential and lost sales or proﬁts” 
(emphasis added)).  By ignoring these commonsense points, 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 164 (2006)  187 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
the Court gives short shrift to the Robinson-Patman Act’s 
prophylactic intent.  See  15 U. S. C. § 13(a)  (barring price 
discrimination where “the effect of such discrimination may 
be  substantially  to  lessen competition”  (emphasis  added)); 
see also, e. g., Morton Salt, 334 U. S., at 46. 
The Court appears to hold that, absent head-to-head bid­
ding with a favored dealer, a dealer in a competitive bidding 
market  can  suffer  no  competitive  injury.4  It  is  unclear 
whether that holding is limited to franchised dealers who do 
not maintain inventories, or excludes virtually all franchisees 
from the effective protection of the Act.  In either event, it 
is not faithful to the statutory text. 
III 
As the Court recognizes, the Robinson-Patman Act was 
primarily intended to protect small retailers from the vig­
orous competition afforded by chainstores and other large 
volume purchasers.  Whether that statutory mission repre­
sented sound economic policy is not merely the subject of 
serious debate, but may well merit Judge Bork’s character­
ization  as  “wholly  mistaken  economic  theory.” 5  I  do  not 
suggest that disagreement with the policy of the Act has 
played a conscious role in my colleagues’ unprecedented deci­
sion today.  I cannot avoid, however, identifying the irony 
in a decision refusing to adhere to the text of the Act in a 
case in which the jury credited evidence that discriminatory 
4Indeed, if Volvo’s argument about the meaning of “purchaser,” see 
ante, at 179–180, ultimately meets with this Court’s approval, then the 
Robinson-Patman Act will simply not apply in the special-order context. 
Any time a special-order dealer fails to complete a transaction because the 
high price drives away its ultimate customer, there will be no Robinson-
Patman violation because the dealer will not meet the “purchaser” re­
quirement, and any time the dealer completes the transaction but at a 
discriminatorily high price, there will be no violation because the dealer 
has no “competition” (as the majority sees it) for that speciﬁc transaction 
at the moment of purchase. 
5 R. Bork, The Antitrust Paradox 382 (1978). 

NEW PAGE

546US1 Unit:$U15 [08-22-0815:43:12] PAGES PGT:OPIN
188  VOLVO TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, INC. v. REEDER-
SIMCO GMC, INC. 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
prices were employed as means of escaping contractual com­
mitments and eliminating speciﬁcally targeted ﬁrms from a 
competitive  market.  The  exceptional  quality  of  this  case 
provides  strong  reason  to  enforce  the  Act’s  prohibition 
against discrimination even if Judge Bork’s evaluation (with 
which I happen to agree) is completely accurate. 
Accordingly, I respectfully dissent. 

NEW PAGE