551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
OCTOBER TERM, 2006  877 
Syllabus 
LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC., dba KAY’S KLOSET . . . KAY’S S  HOES  
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the fifth circuit 
No. 06–480.  Argued March 26, 2007—Decided June 28, 2007 
Given its policy of refusing to sell to retailers that discount its goods below 
suggested prices, petitioner (Leegin) stopped selling to respondent’s 
(PSKS) store.  PSKS ﬁled suit, alleging, inter alia, that Leegin vio­
lated the antitrust laws by entering into vertical agreements with its 
retailers to set minimum resale prices.  The District Court excluded 
expert testimony about Leegin’s pricing policy’s procompetitive effects 
on the ground that Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 
220 U. S. 373, makes it per se illegal under § 1 of the Sherman Act for a 
manufacturer and its distributor to agree on the minimum price the 
distributor can charge for the manufacturer’s goods.  At trial, PSKS 
alleged that Leegin and its retailers had agreed to ﬁx prices, but Leegin 
argued that its pricing policy was lawful under § 1.  The jury found for 
PSKS.  On appeal, the Fifth Circuit declined to apply the rule of reason 
to Leegin’s vertical price-ﬁxing agreements and afﬁrmed, ﬁnding that 
Dr. Miles’ per se rule rendered irrelevant any procompetitive justiﬁca­
tions for Leegin’s policy. 
Held: Dr. Miles is overruled, and vertical price restraints are to be judged 
by the rule of reason.  Pp. 885–908. 
(a) The accepted standard for testing whether a practice restrains 
trade in violation of § 1 is the rule of reason, which requires the fact­
ﬁnder to weigh “all of the circumstances,” Continental T. V., Inc. v. GTE 
Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 49, including “speciﬁc information about the 
relevant business” and “the restraint’s history, nature, and effect,” State 
Oil Co. v. Khan, 522 U. S. 3, 10.  The rule distinguishes between re­
straints with anticompetitive effect that are harmful to the consumer 
and those with procompetitive effect that are in the consumer’s best 
interest.  However, when a restraint is deemed “unlawful per se,” ibid., 
the need to study an individual restraint’s reasonableness in light of 
real market forces is eliminated, Business Electronics Corp. v. Sharp 
Electronics Corp., 485 U. S. 717, 723.  Resort to per se rules is conﬁned 
to restraints “that would always or almost always tend to restrict com­
petition and decrease output.”  Ibid.  Thus, a per se rule is appropriate 
only after courts have had considerable experience with the type of 
restraint at issue, see Broadcast Music, Inc. v. Columbia Broadcasting 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
878  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Syllabus 
System, Inc., 441 U. S. 1, 9, and only if they can predict with conﬁdence 
that the restraint would be invalidated in all or almost all instances 
under the rule of reason, see Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Soc., 
457 U. S. 332, 344.  Pp. 885–887. 
(b) Because the reasons upon which Dr. Miles relied do not justify a 
per se rule, it is necessary to examine, in the ﬁrst instance, the economic 
effects of vertical agreements to ﬁx minimum resale prices and to deter­
mine whether the per se rule is nonetheless appropriate.  Were this 
Court considering the issue as an original matter, the rule of reason, 
not a per se rule of unlawfulness, would be the appropriate standard to 
judge vertical price restraints.  Pp. 887–899. 
(1) Economics literature is replete with procompetitive justiﬁca­
tions for a manufacturer’s use of resale price maintenance, and the few 
recent studies on the subject also cast doubt on the conclusion that the 
practice meets the criteria for a per se rule.  The justiﬁcations for verti­
cal price restraints are similar to those for other vertical restraints. 
Minimum resale price maintenance can stimulate interbrand competi­
tion among manufacturers selling different brands of the same type of 
product by reducing intrabrand competition among retailers selling the 
same brand.  This is important because the antitrust laws’ “primary 
purpose . . . is to protect interbrand competition,” Khan, supra, at 15. 
A single manufacturer’s use of vertical price restraints tends to elimi­
nate intrabrand price competition; this in turn encourages retailers to 
invest in services or promotional efforts that aid the manufacturer’s 
position as against rival manufacturers.  Resale price maintenance may 
also  give  consumers  more  options  to  choose  among  low-price,  low­
service brands; high-price, high-service brands; and brands falling in 
between.  Absent vertical price restraints, retail services that enhance 
interbrand competition might be underprovided because discounting re­
tailers can free ride on retailers who furnish services and then capture 
some of the demand those services generate.  Retail price maintenance 
can also increase interbrand competition by facilitating market entry 
for new ﬁrms and brands and by encouraging retailer services that 
would not be provided even absent free riding.  Pp. 889–892. 
(2) Setting minimum resale prices may also have anticompetitive 
effects; and unlawful price ﬁxing, designed solely to obtain monopoly 
proﬁts, is an ever-present temptation.  Resale price maintenance may, 
for example, facilitate a manufacturer cartel or be used to organize retail 
cartels.  It can also be abused by a powerful manufacturer or retailer. 
Thus, the potential anticompetitive consequences of vertical price re­
straints must not be ignored or underestimated.  Pp. 892–894. 
(3) Notwithstanding the risks of unlawful conduct, it cannot be 
stated with any degree of conﬁdence that retail price maintenance “al­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  879 
Syllabus 
ways or almost always tend[s] to restrict competition and decrease out­
put,” Business Electronics, supra, at 723.  Vertical retail price agree­
ments have either procompetitive or anticompetitive effects, depending 
on the circumstances in which they were formed; and the limited empiri­
cal evidence available does not suggest efﬁcient uses of the agreements 
are infrequent or hypothetical.  A per se rule should not be adopted for 
administrative convenience alone.  Such rules can be counterproduc­
tive, increasing the antitrust system’s total cost by prohibiting procom­
petitive conduct the antitrust laws should encourage.  And a per se rule 
cannot be justiﬁed by the possibility of higher prices absent a further 
showing of anticompetitive conduct.  The antitrust laws primarily are 
designed to protect interbrand competition from which lower prices can 
later result.  Respondent’s argument overlooks that, in general, the in­
terests of manufacturers and consumers are aligned with respect to re­
tailer proﬁt margins.  Resale price maintenance has economic dangers. 
If the rule of reason were to apply, courts would have to be diligent in 
eliminating their anticompetitive uses from the market.  Factors rele­
vant to the inquiry are the number of manufacturers using the practice, 
the restraint’s source, and a manufacturer’s market power.  The rule 
of reason is designed and used to ascertain whether transactions are 
anticompetitive or procompetitive.  This standard principle applies to 
vertical price restraints.  As courts gain experience with these re­
straints by applying the rule of reason over the course of decisions, 
they can establish the litigation structure to ensure the rule operates to 
eliminate anticompetitive restraints from the market and to provide 
more guidance to businesses.  Pp. 894–899. 
(c) Stare decisis does not compel continued adherence to the per se 
rule here.  Because the Sherman Act is treated as a common-law stat­
ute, its prohibition on “restraint[s] of trade” evolves to meet the dynam­
ics of present economic conditions.  The rule of reason’s case-by-case 
adjudication implements this common-law approach.  Here, respected 
economics authorities suggest that the per se rule is inappropriate. 
And both the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission 
recommend replacing the per se rule with the rule of reason.  In addi­
tion, this Court has “overruled [its] precedents when subsequent cases 
have undermined their doctrinal underpinnings.”  Dickerson v. United 
States, 530 U. S. 428, 443.  It is not surprising that the Court has dis­
tanced itself from Dr. Miles’ rationales, for the case was decided not 
long after the Sherman Act was enacted, when the Court had little expe­
rience with antitrust analysis.  Only eight years after Dr. Miles, the 
Court reined in the decision, holding that a manufacturer can suggest 
resale prices and refuse to deal with distributors who do not follow 
them, United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307–308; and more 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
880  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Syllabus 
recently the Court has tempered, limited, or overruled once strict verti­
cal restraint prohibitions, see, e. g., GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 57–59. 
The Dr. Miles rule is also inconsistent with a principled framework, for 
it makes little economic sense when analyzed with the Court’s other 
vertical restraint cases.  Deciding that procompetitive effects of resale 
price maintenance are insufﬁcient to overrule Dr. Miles would call into 
question cases such as Colgate and GTE Sylvania.  Respondent’s argu­
ments for reafﬁrming Dr. Miles based on stare decisis do not require a 
different result.  Pp. 899–907. 
171 Fed. Appx. 464, reversed and remanded. 
Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, 
C. J., and Scalia, Thomas, and Alito, JJ., joined.  Breyer, J., ﬁled a 
dissenting opinion, in which Stevens, Souter, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined, 
post, p. 908. 
Theodore B. Olson argued the cause for petitioner.  With 
him on the briefs were Michael L. Denger, Joshua Lipton, 
Amir C. Tayrani, Tyler A. Baker, Jeffrey S. Levinger, and 
Gary Freedman. 
Deputy Solicitor General Hungar argued the cause for 
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With 
him on the brief were Solicitor General Clement, Assistant 
Attorney General Barnett, Deputy Assistant Attorney Gen­
eral Masoudi, Lisa S. Blatt, Catherine G. O’Sullivan, and 
David Seidman. 
Robert W. Coykendall argued the cause for respondent. 
With him on the brief were Ken M. Peterson, Tim J. Moore, 
Nelson J. Roach, D. Neil Smith, and Stephen R. McAllister. 
Barbara D. Underwood, Solicitor General of New York, 
argued the cause for the State of New York et al. as amici 
curiae urging afﬁrmance.  With her on the brief were An­
drew M. Cuomo, Attorney General of New York, Benjamin 
N.  Gutman,  Acting  Deputy  Solicitor  General,  Daniel  J. 
Chepaitis, Assistant Solicitor General, and Jay L. Himes and 
Robert L. Hubbard, Assistant Attorneys General, and the 
Attorneys  General  for  their  respective  States  as  follows: 
Talis J. Colberg of Alaska, Dustin McDaniel of Arkansas, 
Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Joseph R. Biden III of 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  881 
Opinion of the Court 
Delaware,  Bill  McCollum  of  Florida,  Mark  J.  Bennett  of 
Hawaii, Lawrence G. Wasden of Idaho, Lisa Madigan of Illi­
nois, Thomas Miller of Iowa, Paul Morrison of Kansas, Greg 
Stumbo of Kentucky, Charles C. Foti, Jr., of Louisiana, G. 
Steven  Rowe  of  Maine,  Douglas  F.  Gansler  of  Maryland, 
Martha Coakley of Massachusetts, Mike Cox of Michigan, 
Lori Swanson of Minnesota, Jim Hood of Mississippi, Jere­
miah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Mike McGrath of Mon­
tana, Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada, Kelly A. Ayotte of 
New Hampshire, Stuart Rabner of New Jersey, Gary King 
of New Mexico, Roy Cooper of North Carolina, Marc Dann 
of Ohio, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers 
of Oregon, Thomas W. Corbett, Jr., of Pennsylvania, Henry 
McMaster of South Carolina, Larry Long of South Dakota, 
Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, 
Robert M. McKenna of Washington, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., 
of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Crank of Wyoming.* 
Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.
 
In Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 220
 
U. S. 373 (1911), the Court established the rule that it is per 
se illegal under § 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1, for a 
manufacturer to agree with its distributor to set the mini­
mum price the distributor can charge for the manufactur­
er’s goods.  The question presented by the instant case is 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the American 
Petroleum Institute by Robert A. Long, Harry M. Ng, and Douglas W. 
Morris; for CTIA—The Wireless Association by Roy T. Englert, Jr., Don­
ald J. Russell, and Michael Field Altshul; for Economists by Joseph Ang­
land and Stephen V. Bomse; and for PING, Inc., by Thomas C. Walsh, 
Lawrence G. Scarborough, Aaron S. Bayer, and Robert M. Langer. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the American 
Antitrust Institute by Albert Foer; for the Anderson Economic Group, 
LLC, by Theodore R. Bolema; for the Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse 
Corp. by Jonathan W. Cuneo, Matthew Wiener, and Robert J. Cynkar; and 
for the Consumer Federation of America by Peter A. Barile III. 
Eugene Crew ﬁled a brief for William S. Comanor et al. as amici curiae. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
882  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
whether the Court should overrule the per se rule and allow 
resale price maintenance agreements to be judged by the 
rule of reason, the usual standard applied to determine if 
there is a violation of § 1.  The Court has abandoned the rule 
of per se illegality for other vertical restraints a manufac­
turer imposes on its distributors.  Respected economic ana­
lysts, furthermore, conclude that vertical price restraints can 
have procompetitive effects.  We now hold that Dr. Miles 
should be overruled and that vertical price restraints are to 
be judged by the rule of reason. 
I 
Petitioner, Leegin Creative Leather Products, Inc. (Lee­
gin), designs, manufactures, and distributes leather goods 
and accessories.  In 1991, Leegin began to sell belts under 
the brand name “Brighton.”  The Brighton brand has now 
expanded into a variety of women’s fashion accessories.  It 
is sold across the United States in over 5,000 retail establish­
ments, for the most part independent, small boutiques and 
specialty stores.  Leegin’s president, Jerry Kohl, also has an 
interest in about 70 stores that sell Brighton products.  Lee­
gin asserts that, at least for its products, small retailers treat 
customers  better,  provide  customers  more  services,  and 
make their shopping experience more satisfactory than do 
larger,  often  impersonal  retailers.  Kohl  explained:  “[W]e 
want the consumers to get a different experience than they 
get in Sam’s Club or in Wal-Mart.  And you can’t get that 
kind of experience or support or customer service from a 
store like Wal-Mart.”  5 Record 127. 
Respondent, PSKS, Inc. (PSKS), operates Kay’s Kloset, a 
women’s apparel store in Lewisville, Texas.  Kay’s Kloset 
buys from about 75 different manufacturers and at one time 
sold the Brighton brand.  It ﬁrst started purchasing Brigh­
ton goods from Leegin in 1995.  Once it began selling the 
brand, the store promoted Brighton.  For example, it ran 
Brighton advertisements and had Brighton days in the store. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  883 
Opinion of the Court 
Kay’s Kloset became the destination retailer in the area to 
buy Brighton products.  Brighton was the store’s most im­
portant brand and once accounted for 40 to 50 percent of 
its proﬁts. 
In 1997, Leegin instituted the “Brighton Retail Pricing 
and Promotion Policy.”  4 id., at 939.  Following the policy, 
Leegin refused to sell to retailers that discounted Brighton 
goods below suggested prices.  The policy contained an ex­
ception for products not selling well that the retailer did not 
plan on reordering.  In the letter to retailers establishing 
the policy, Leegin stated: 
“In this age of mega stores like Macy’s, Bloomingdales, 
May Co. and others, consumers are perplexed by prom­
ises of product quality and support of product which we 
believe is lacking in these large stores.  Consumers are 
further confused by the ever popular sale, sale, sale, etc. 
“We, at Leegin, choose to break away from the pack 
by selling [at] specialty stores; specialty stores that can 
offer  the  customer  great quality  merchandise,  superb 
service, and support the Brighton product 365 days a 
year on a consistent basis. 
“We realize that half the equation is Leegin producing 
great Brighton product and the other half is you, our 
retailer, creating great looking stores selling our prod­
ucts in a quality manner.”  Ibid. 
Leegin adopted the policy to give its retailers sufﬁcient mar­
gins to provide customers the service central to its distribu­
tion strategy.  It also expressed concern that discounting 
harmed Brighton’s brand image and reputation. 
A year after instituting the pricing policy Leegin intro­
duced a marketing strategy known as the “Heart Store Pro­
gram.”  See id., at 962–972.  It offered retailers incentives 
to become Heart Stores, and, in exchange, retailers pledged, 
among  other  things,  to  sell  at  Leegin’s  suggested  prices. 
Kay’s Kloset became a Heart Store soon after Leegin created 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
884  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
the program.  After a Leegin employee visited the store 
and found it unattractive, the parties appear to have agreed 
that Kay’s Kloset would not be a Heart Store beyond 1998. 
Despite losing this status, Kay’s Kloset continued to increase 
its Brighton sales. 
In December 2002, Leegin discovered Kay’s Kloset had 
been  marking  down  Brighton’s  entire  line  by  20  percent. 
Kay’s Kloset contended it placed Brighton products on sale 
to compete with nearby retailers who also were undercutting 
Leegin’s suggested prices.  Leegin, nonetheless, requested 
that Kay’s Kloset cease discounting.  Its request refused, 
Leegin stopped selling to the store.  The loss of the Brigh­
ton brand had a considerable negative impact on the store’s 
revenue from sales. 
PSKS sued Leegin in the United States District Court for 
the  Eastern  District  of  Texas.  It  alleged,  among  other 
claims, that Leegin had violated the antitrust laws by “enter­
[ing]  into  agreements  with  retailers  to  charge  only  those 
prices ﬁxed by Leegin.”  Id., at 1236.  Leegin planned to 
introduce expert testimony describing the procompetitive ef­
fects of its pricing policy.  The District Court excluded the 
testimony,  relying  on  the  per  se  rule  established  by  Dr. 
Miles.  At trial PSKS argued that the Heart Store program, 
among other things, demonstrated Leegin and its retailers 
had agreed to ﬁx prices.  Leegin responded that it had es­
tablished a unilateral pricing policy lawful under § 1, which 
applies only to concerted action.  See United States v. Col­
gate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307 (1919).  The jury agreed with 
PSKS and awarded it $1.2 million.  Pursuant to 15 U. S. C. 
§ 15(a), the District Court trebled the damages and reim­
bursed PSKS for its attorney’s fees and costs.  It entered 
judgment against Leegin in the amount of $3,975,000.80. 
The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit afﬁrmed.  171 
Fed. Appx. 464 (2006) (per curiam).  On appeal Leegin did 
not  dispute  that  it  had  entered  into  vertical  price-ﬁxing 
agreements with its retailers.  Rather, it contended that the 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  885 
Opinion of the Court 
rule  of  reason  should  have  applied  to  those  agreements. 
The Court of Appeals rejected this argument.  Id., at 466– 
467.  It was correct to explain that it remained bound by 
Dr. Miles “[b]ecause [the Supreme] Court has consistently 
applied the  per se  rule to [vertical  minimum price-ﬁxing] 
agreements.”  171 Fed. Appx., at 466.  On this premise the 
Court of Appeals held that the District Court did not abuse 
its  discretion  in  excluding  the  testimony  of  Leegin’s  eco­
nomic expert, for the per se rule rendered irrelevant any 
procompetitive justiﬁcations for Leegin’s pricing policy.  Id., 
at 467.  We granted certiorari to determine whether verti­
cal minimum resale price maintenance agreements should 
continue to be treated as per se unlawful.  549 U. S. 1092 
(2006). 
II 
Section 1 of the Sherman Act prohibits “[e]very contract, 
combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, 
in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States.” 
Ch. 647, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1.  While § 1 
could  be  interpreted  to  proscribe  all  contracts,  see,  e. g., 
Board of Trade of Chicago v. United States, 246 U. S. 231, 
238 (1918), the Court has never “taken a literal approach to 
[its] language,” Texaco Inc. v. Dagher, 547 U. S. 1, 5 (2006). 
Rather, the Court has repeated time and again that § 1 “out­
law[s] only unreasonable restraints.”  State Oil Co. v. Khan, 
522 U. S. 3, 10 (1997). 
The rule of reason is the accepted standard for testing 
whether a practice restrains trade in violation of § 1.  See 
Texaco, supra, at 5.  “Under this rule, the factﬁnder weighs 
all of the circumstances of a case in deciding whether a re­
strictive practice should be prohibited as imposing an unrea­
sonable restraint on competition.”  Continental T. V., Inc. 
v. GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 49 (1977).  Appropriate 
factors  to  take  into  account  include  “speciﬁc  information 
about the relevant business” and “the restraint’s history, na­
ture, and effect.”  Khan, supra, at 10.  Whether the busi­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
886  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
nesses involved have market power is a further, signiﬁcant 
consideration.  See, e. g., Copperweld Corp. v. Independence 
Tube Corp., 467 U. S. 752, 768 (1984) (equating the rule of 
reason with “an inquiry into market power and market struc­
ture designed to assess [a restraint’s] actual effect”); see also 
Illinois Tool Works Inc. v. Independent Ink, Inc., 547 U. S. 
28, 45–46 (2006).  In its design and function the rule distin­
guishes between restraints with anticompetitive effect that 
are harmful to the consumer and restraints stimulating com­
petition that are in the consumer’s best interest. 
The rule of reason does not govern all restraints.  Some 
types “are deemed unlawful per se.”  Khan, supra, at 10. 
The per se rule, treating categories of restraints as necessar­
ily illegal, eliminates the need to study the reasonableness 
of an individual restraint in light of the real market forces 
at work, Business Electronics Corp. v.  Sharp Electronics 
Corp.,  485 U. S. 717, 723 (1988); and, it must be acknowl­
edged, the per se rule can give clear guidance for certain 
conduct.  Restraints that are per se unlawful include hori­
zontal agreements among competitors to ﬁx prices, see Tex­
aco, supra, at 5, or to divide markets, see Palmer v. BRG of 
Ga., Inc., 498 U. S. 46, 49–50 (1990) (per curiam). 
Resort to per se rules is conﬁned to restraints, like those 
mentioned, “that would always or almost always tend to re­
strict  competition  and  decrease  output.”  Business  Elec­
tronics, supra, at 723 (internal quotation marks omitted). 
To justify a per se prohibition a restraint must have “mani­
festly anticompetitive” effects, GTE Sylvania, supra, at 50, 
and “ lack . . . any  redeeming virtue,” Northwest Wholesale 
Stationers, Inc. v.  Paciﬁc Stationery & Printing Co., 472 
U. S. 284, 289 (1985) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
As a consequence, the per se rule is appropriate only after 
courts have had considerable experience with the type of 
restraint at issue, see Broadcast Music, Inc. v.  Columbia 
Broadcasting System, Inc., 441 U. S. 1, 9 (1979), and only if 
courts can predict with conﬁdence that it would be invali­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  887 
Opinion of the Court 
dated in all or almost all instances under the rule of reason, 
see Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Soc., 457 U. S. 332, 
344 (1982).  It should come as no surprise, then, that “we 
have expressed reluctance to adopt per se rules with regard 
to restraints imposed in the context of business relationships 
where the economic impact of certain practices is not imme­
diately  obvious.”  Khan,  supra,  at  10  (internal  quotation 
marks omitted); see also White Motor Co. v. United States, 
372 U. S. 253, 263 (1963) (refusing to adopt a per se rule for 
a vertical nonprice restraint because of the uncertainty con­
cerning whether this type of restraint satisﬁed the demand­
ing standards necessary to apply a per se rule).  And, as we 
have stated, a “departure from the rule-of-reason standard 
must  be  based  upon  demonstrable  economic  effect  rather 
than . . . u  pon formalistic line drawing.”  GTE Sylvania, 
supra, at 58–59. 
III 
The Court has interpreted Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John 
D. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, as establishing a per se 
rule against a vertical agreement between a manufacturer 
and its distributor to set minimum resale prices.  See, e. g., 
Monsanto Co. v. Spray-Rite Service Corp., 465 U. S. 752, 761 
(1984).  In Dr. Miles the plaintiff, a manufacturer of medi­
cines, sold its products only to distributors who agreed to 
resell them at set prices.  The Court found the manufactur­
er’s control of resale prices to be unlawful.  It relied on the 
common-law rule that “a general restraint upon alienation is 
ordinarily invalid.”  220 U. S., at 404–405.  The Court then 
explained that the agreements would advantage the distribu­
tors, not the manufacturer, and were analogous to a combina­
tion among competing distributors, which the law treated as 
void.  Id., at 407–408. 
The reasoning of the Court’s more recent jurisprudence 
has rejected the rationales on which Dr. Miles was based. 
By  relying on  the  common-law rule  against restraints  on 
alienation, id., at 404–405, the Court justiﬁed its decision 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
888  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
based on “formalistic” legal doctrine rather than “demon­
strable economic effect,” GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 58–59. 
The Court in Dr. Miles relied on a treatise published in 1628, 
but failed to discuss in detail the business reasons that would 
motivate a manufacturer situated in 1911 to make use of ver­
tical price  restraints.  Yet the  Sherman Act’s use  of “re­
straint of trade” “invokes the common law itself, . . . not  
merely the static content that the common law had assigned 
to the term in 1890.”  Business Electronics, supra, at 732. 
The  general  restraint  on  alienation,  especially  in  the  age 
when then-Justice Hughes used the term, tended to evoke 
policy  concerns  extraneous  to  the  question  that  controls 
here.  Usually associated with land, not chattels, the rule 
arose  from  restrictions  removing  real  property  from  the 
stream of commerce for generations.  The Court should be 
cautious about putting dispositive weight on doctrines from 
antiquity  but  of  slight  relevance.  We  reafﬁrm  that  “the 
state of the common law 400 or even 100 years ago is irrele­
vant to the issue before us: the effect of the antitrust laws 
upon vertical distributional restraints in the American econ­
omy today.”  GTE Sylvania, supra, at 53, n. 21 (internal 
quotation marks omitted). 
Dr.  Miles,  furthermore,  treated  vertical  agreements  a 
manufacturer makes with its distributors as analogous to a 
horizontal combination among competing distributors.  See 
220 U. S., at 407–408.  In later cases, however, the Court 
rejected the approach of reliance on rules governing horizon­
tal restraints when deﬁning rules applicable to vertical ones. 
See, e. g., Business Electronics, supra, at 734 (disclaiming 
the “notion of equivalence between the scope of horizontal 
per se illegality and that of vertical per se illegality”); Mari­
copa County, supra, at 348, n. 18 (noting that “horizontal 
restraints  are  generally  less  defensible  than  vertical  re­
straints”).  Our recent cases formulate antitrust principles 
in accordance with the appreciated differences in economic 
effect between vertical and horizontal agreements, differ­
ences the Dr. Miles Court failed to consider. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  889 
Opinion of the Court 
The reasons upon which Dr. Miles relied do not justify a 
per se rule.  As a consequence, it is necessary to examine, 
in the ﬁrst instance, the economic effects of vertical agree­
ments  to  ﬁx  minimum  resale  prices,  and  to  determine 
whether  the  per  se  rule  is  nonetheless  appropriate.  See 
Business Electronics, 485 U. S., at 726. 
A 
Though each side of the debate can ﬁnd sources to support 
its position, it sufﬁces to say here that economics literature 
is replete with procompetitive justiﬁcations for a manufac­
turer’s use of resale price maintenance.  See, e. g., Brief for 
Economists as Amici Curiae 16 (“In the theoretical litera­
ture, it is essentially undisputed that minimum [resale price 
maintenance] can have procompetitive effects and that under 
a variety of market conditions it is unlikely to have anticom­
petitive effects”); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 
9 (“[T]here is a widespread consensus that permitting a man­
ufacturer to control the price at which its goods are sold may 
promote interbrand competition and consumer welfare in a 
variety of ways”); ABA Section of Antitrust Law, Antitrust 
Law and Economics of Product Distribution 76 (2006) (“[T]he 
bulk of the economic literature on [resale price maintenance] 
suggests that [it] is more likely to be used to enhance efﬁ­
ciency than for anticompetitive purposes”); see also H. Ho­
venkamp, The Antitrust Enterprise: Principle and Execution 
184–191 (2005) (hereinafter Hovenkamp); R. Bork, The Anti­
trust  Paradox  288–291  (1978)  (hereinafter  Bork).  Even 
those more skeptical of resale price maintenance acknowl­
edge it can have procompetitive effects.  See, e. g., Brief for 
William S. Comanor et al. as Amici Curiae 3 (“[G]iven [the] 
diversity of effects [of resale price maintenance], one could 
reasonably take the position that a rule of reason rather than 
a  per  se  approach  is  warranted”);  F.  Scherer  &  D.  Ross, 
Industrial Market Structure and Economic Performance 558 
(3d ed. 1990) (hereinafter Scherer & Ross) (“The overall bal­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
890  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
ance between beneﬁts and costs [of resale price maintenance] 
is probably close”). 
The few recent studies documenting the competitive ef­
fects  of  resale  price  maintenance  also  cast  doubt  on  the 
conclusion that the practice meets the criteria for a per se 
rule.  See Bureau of Economics Staff Report to the FTC, 
T. Overstreet, Resale Price Maintenance: Economic Theories 
and Empirical Evidence 170 (1983) (hereinafter Overstreet) 
(noting that “[e]fﬁcient uses of [resale price maintenance] are 
evidently  not  unusual  or  rare”);  see  also  Ippolito,  Resale 
Price Maintenance: Empirical Evidence From Litigation, 34 
J. Law & Econ. 263, 292–293 (1991) (hereinafter Ippolito). 
The justiﬁcations for vertical price restraints are similar 
to those for other vertical restraints.  See GTE Sylvania, 
433 U. S., at 54–57.  Minimum resale price maintenance can 
stimulate  interbrand  competition—the  competition  among 
manufacturers selling different brands of the same type of 
product—by reducing intrabrand competition—the competi­
tion among retailers selling the same brand.  See id., at 51– 
52.  The promotion of interbrand competition is important 
because “the primary purpose of the antitrust laws is to pro­
tect [this type of] competition.”  Khan, 522 U.S., at 15.  A 
single manufacturer’s use of vertical price restraints tends 
to eliminate intrabrand price competition; this in turn en­
courages retailers to invest in tangible or intangible services 
or promotional efforts that aid the manufacturer’s position 
as against rival manufacturers.  Resale price maintenance 
also has the potential to give consumers more options so that 
they can choose among low-price, low-service brands; high­
price, high-service brands; and brands that fall in between. 
Absent vertical price restraints, the retail services that 
enhance  interbrand  competition  might  be  underprovided. 
This is because discounting retailers can free ride on retail­
ers who furnish services and then capture some of the in­
creased demand those services generate.  GTE Sylvania, 
supra, at 55.  Consumers might learn, for example, about 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  891 
Opinion of the Court 
the beneﬁts of a manufacturer’s product from a retailer that 
invests in ﬁne showrooms, offers product demonstrations, or 
hires and trains knowledgeable employees.  R. Posner, Anti­
trust Law 172–173 (2d ed. 2001) (hereinafter Posner).  Or 
consumers might decide to buy the product because they see 
it in a retail establishment that has a reputation for selling 
high-quality  merchandise.  Marvel  &  McCafferty,  Resale 
Price  Maintenance  and  Quality  Certiﬁcation,  15  Rand  J. 
Econ. 346, 347–349 (1984) (hereinafter Marvel & McCafferty). 
If the consumer can then buy the product from a retailer 
that  discounts  because  it  has  not  spent  capital  provid­
ing services or developing a quality reputation, the high­
service retailer will lose sales to the discounter, forcing it to 
cut back its services to a level lower than consumers would 
otherwise prefer.  Minimum resale price maintenance alle­
viates the problem because it prevents the discounter from 
undercutting  the  service  provider.  With  price  competi­
tion decreased, the manufacturer’s retailers compete among 
themselves over services. 
Resale price maintenance, in addition, can increase inter­
brand competition by facilitating market entry for new ﬁrms 
and brands.  “[N]ew manufacturers and manufacturers en­
tering new markets can use the restrictions in order to in­
duce competent and aggressive retailers to make the kind of 
investment of capital and labor that is often required in the 
distribution of products unknown to the consumer.”  GTE 
Sylvania, supra, at 55; see Marvel & McCafferty 349 (noting 
that reliance on a retailer’s reputation “will decline as the 
manufacturer’s brand becomes better known, so that [resale 
price maintenance] may be particularly important as a com­
petitive device for new entrants”).  New products and new 
brands are essential to a dynamic economy, and if markets 
can be penetrated by using resale price maintenance there 
is a procompetitive effect. 
Resale  price  maintenance  can  also  increase  interbrand 
competition by encouraging retailer services that would not 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
892  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
be provided even absent free riding.  It may be difﬁcult and 
inefﬁcient for a manufacturer to make and enforce a contract 
with a retailer specifying the different services the retailer 
must perform.  Offering the retailer a guaranteed margin 
and threatening termination if it does not live up to expecta­
tions may be the most efﬁcient way to expand the manufac­
turer’s market share by inducing the retailer’s performance 
and allowing it to use its own initiative and experience in 
providing valuable services.  See Mathewson & Winter, The 
Law and Economics of Resale Price Maintenance, 13 Rev. 
Indus. Org. 57, 74–75 (1998) (hereinafter Mathewson & Win­
ter); Klein & Murphy, Vertical Restraints as Contract En­
forcement Mechanisms, 31 J. Law & Econ. 265, 295 (1988); 
see also Deneckere, Marvel, & Peck, Demand Uncertainty, 
Inventories, and Resale Price Maintenance, 111 Q. J. Econ. 
885, 911 (1996) (noting that resale price maintenance may be 
beneﬁcial to motivate retailers to stock adequate inventories 
of a manufacturer’s goods in the face of uncertain consumer 
demand). 
B 
While vertical agreements setting minimum resale prices 
can have procompetitive justiﬁcations, they may have anti­
competitive effects in other cases; and unlawful price ﬁxing, 
designed solely to obtain monopoly proﬁts, is an ever-present 
temptation.  Resale price maintenance may, for example, fa­
cilitate  a  manufacturer  cartel.  See  Business  Electronics, 
485 U. S., at 725.  An unlawful cartel will seek to discover 
if  some  manufacturers  are  undercutting  the  cartel’s  ﬁxed 
prices.  Resale price maintenance could assist the cartel in 
identifying price-cutting manufacturers who beneﬁt from the 
lower prices they offer.  Resale price maintenance, further­
more, could discourage a manufacturer from cutting prices 
to retailers with the concomitant beneﬁt of cheaper prices 
to consumers.  See ibid.; see also Posner 172; Overstreet 
19–23. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  893 
Opinion of the Court 
Vertical price restraints also “might be used to organize 
cartels at the retailer level.”  Business Electronics, supra, 
at 725–726.  A group of retailers might collude to ﬁx prices 
to consumers and then compel a manufacturer to aid the un­
lawful arrangement with resale price maintenance.  In that 
instance the manufacturer does not establish the practice to 
stimulate services or to promote its brand but to give inefﬁ­
cient retailers higher proﬁts.  Retailers with better distri­
bution  systems  and  lower  cost  structures  would  be  pre­
vented from charging lower prices by the agreement.  See 
Posner 172; Overstreet 13–19.  Historical examples suggest 
this possibility is a legitimate concern.  See, e. g., Marvel & 
McCafferty,  The  Welfare  Effects  of  Resale  Price  Mainte­
nance, 28 J. Law & Econ. 363, 373 (1985) (hereinafter Marvel) 
(providing an example of the power of the National Associa­
tion of Retail Druggists to compel manufacturers to use re­
sale price maintenance); Hovenkamp 186 (suggesting that the 
retail druggists in Dr. Miles formed a cartel and used manu­
facturers to enforce it). 
A  horizontal  cartel  among  competing  manufacturers  or 
competing retailers that decreases output or reduces compe­
tition in order to increase price is, and ought to be, per se 
unlawful.  See Texaco, 547 U. S., at 5; GTE Sylvania, 433 
U. S., at 58, n. 28.  To the extent a vertical agreement set­
ting  minimum  resale  prices  is  entered  upon  to  facilitate 
either type of cartel, it, too, would need to be held unlawful 
under the rule of reason.  This type of agreement may also 
be useful evidence for a plaintiff attempting to prove the 
existence of a horizontal cartel. 
Resale price maintenance, furthermore, can be abused by 
a powerful manufacturer or retailer.  A dominant retailer, 
for example, might request resale price maintenance to fore­
stall innovation in distribution that decreases costs.  A man­
ufacturer might consider it has little choice but to accommo­
date the retailer’s demands for vertical price restraints if 
the manufacturer believes it needs access to the retailer’s 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
894  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
distribution network.  See Overstreet 31; 8 P. Areeda & H. 
Hovenkamp,  Antitrust  Law  47  (2d  ed.  2004)  (hereinafter 
Areeda & Hovenkamp); cf. Toys “R” Us, Inc. v.  FTC, 221 
F. 3d 928, 937–938 (CA7 2000).  A manufacturer with market 
power, by comparison, might use resale price maintenance to 
give retailers an incentive not to sell the products of smaller 
rivals  or  new  entrants.  See,  e. g.,  Marvel  366–368.  As 
should be evident, the potential anticompetitive conse­
quences of vertical price restraints must not be ignored or 
underestimated. 
C 
Notwithstanding the risks of unlawful conduct, it cannot 
be stated with any degree of conﬁdence that resale price 
maintenance  “always  or  almost  always  tend[s]  to  restrict 
competition  and  decrease  output.”  Business  Electronics, 
supra, at 723 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Vertical 
agreements  establishing  minimum  resale  prices  can  have 
either procompetitive or anticompetitive effects, depending 
upon the circumstances in which they are formed.  And al­
though the empirical evidence on the topic is limited, it does 
not suggest efﬁcient uses of the agreements are infrequent 
or hypothetical.  See Overstreet 170; see also id., at 80 (not­
ing that for the majority of enforcement actions brought by 
the Federal Trade Commission between 1965 and 1982, “the 
use of [resale price maintenance] was not likely motivated by 
collusive dealers who had successfully coerced their suppli­
ers”); Ippolito 292 (reaching a similar conclusion).  As the 
rule  would  proscribe  a  signiﬁcant  amount  of  procompeti­
tive conduct, these agreements appear ill suited for per se 
condemnation. 
Respondent contends, nonetheless, that vertical price re­
straints should be per se unlawful because of the administra­
tive convenience of per se rules.  See, e. g., GTE Sylvania, 
supra, at 50, n. 16 (noting “per se rules tend to provide guid­
ance to the business community and to minimize the burdens 
on litigants and the judicial system”).  That argument sug­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  895 
Opinion of the Court 
gests per se illegality is the rule rather than the exception. 
This misinterprets our antitrust law.  Per se rules may de­
crease administrative costs, but that is only part of the equa­
tion.  Those rules can be counterproductive.  They can in­
crease the total cost of the antitrust system by prohibiting 
procompetitive conduct the antitrust laws should encourage. 
See  Easterbrook,  Vertical  Arrangements  and  the  Rule  of 
Reason, 53 Antitrust L. J. 135, 158 (1984) (hereinafter East­
erbrook).  They also may increase litigation costs by pro­
moting  frivolous  suits  against  legitimate  practices.  The 
Court has thus explained that administrative “advantages 
are not sufﬁcient in themselves to justify the creation of per 
se rules,” GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 50, n. 16, and has rele­
gated their use to restraints that are “manifestly anticompet­
itive,” id., at 49–50.  Were the Court now to conclude that 
vertical price restraints should be per se illegal based on 
administrative costs, we would undermine, if not overrule, 
the traditional “demanding standards” for adopting per se 
rules.  Id., at 50.  Any possible reduction in administrative 
costs cannot alone justify the Dr. Miles rule. 
Respondent also argues the per se rule is justiﬁed because 
a vertical price restraint can lead to higher prices for the 
manufacturer’s goods.  See also Overstreet 160 (noting that 
“price  surveys  indicate  that  [resale  price  maintenance]  in 
most  cases  increased  the  prices  of  products  sold”).  Re­
spondent is mistaken in relying on pricing effects absent a 
further showing of anticompetitive conduct.  Cf. id., at 106 
(explaining that price surveys “do not necessarily tell us any­
thing conclusive about the welfare effects of [resale price 
maintenance]  because  the  results  are  generally  consistent 
with  both  procompetitive  and  anticompetitive  theories”). 
For, as has been indicated already, the antitrust laws are 
designed primarily to protect interbrand competition, from 
which lower prices can later result.  See Khan, 522 U. S., 
at 15.  The Court, moreover, has evaluated other vertical 
restraints under the rule of reason even though prices can be 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
896  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
increased in the course of promoting procompetitive effects. 
See, e. g., Business Electronics, 485 U. S., at 728.  And re­
sale price maintenance may reduce prices if manufacturers 
have resorted to costlier alternatives of controlling resale 
prices that are not per se unlawful.  See infra, at 902–904; 
see also Marvel 371. 
Respondent’s  argument,  furthermore,  overlooks  that,  in 
general, the interests of manufacturers and consumers are 
aligned with respect to retailer proﬁt margins.  The differ­
ence between the price a manufacturer charges retailers and 
the price retailers charge consumers represents part of the 
manufacturer’s  cost  of  distribution,  which,  like  any  other 
cost,  the  manufacturer  usually  desires  to  minimize.  See 
GTE Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 56, n. 24; see also id., at 56 
(“Economists . . . have argued that manufacturers have an 
economic interest in maintaining as much intrabrand compe­
tition as is consistent with the efﬁcient distribution of their 
products”).  A manufacturer has no incentive to overcom­
pensate retailers with unjustiﬁed margins.  The retailers, 
not the manufacturer, gain from higher retail prices.  The 
manufacturer often loses; interbrand competition reduces its 
competitiveness and market share because consumers will 
“substitute a different brand of the same product.”  Id., at 
52, n. 19; see Business Electronics, supra, at 725.  As a gen­
eral matter, therefore, a single manufacturer will desire to 
set minimum resale prices only if the “increase in demand 
resulting from enhanced service . . . will  more than offset 
a  negative  impact  on  demand  of  a  higher  retail  price.” 
Mathewson & Winter 67. 
The implications of respondent’s position are far reaching. 
Many  decisions  a  manufacturer  makes  and  carries  out 
through concerted action can lead to higher prices.  A man­
ufacturer might, for example, contract with different suppli­
ers to obtain better inputs that improve product quality.  Or 
it might hire an advertising agency to promote awareness of 
its goods.  Yet no one would think these actions violate the 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  897 
Opinion of the Court 
Sherman Act because they lead to higher prices.  The anti­
trust laws do not require manufacturers to produce generic 
goods that consumers do not know about or want.  The man­
ufacturer strives to improve its product quality or to pro­
mote its brand because it believes this conduct will lead to 
increased demand despite higher prices.  The same can hold 
true for resale price maintenance. 
Resale price maintenance, it is true, does have economic 
dangers.  If  the  rule  of  reason  were  to  apply  to  vertical 
price restraints, courts would have to be diligent in eliminat­
ing their anticompetitive uses from the market.  This is a 
realistic objective, and certain factors are relevant to the 
inquiry.  For  example,  the  number  of  manufacturers  that 
make use of the practice in a given industry can provide 
important  instruction.  When  only  a  few  manufacturers 
lacking market power adopt the practice, there is little likeli­
hood it is facilitating a manufacturer cartel, for a cartel then 
can be undercut by rival manufacturers.  See Overstreet 22; 
Bork 294.  Likewise, a retailer cartel is unlikely when only 
a single manufacturer in a competitive market uses resale 
price  maintenance.  Interbrand  competition  would  divert 
consumers  to  lower  priced  substitutes  and  eliminate  any 
gains to retailers from their price-ﬁxing agreement over a 
single  brand.  See  Posner  172;  Bork  292.  Resale  price 
maintenance should be subject to more careful scrutiny, by 
contrast, if many competing manufacturers adopt the prac­
tice.  Cf. Scherer & Ross 558 (noting that “except when [re­
sale price maintenance] spreads to cover the bulk of an in­
dustry’s output, depriving consumers of a meaningful choice 
between  high-service  and  low-price  outlets,  most  [resale 
price maintenance arrangements] are probably innocu­
ous”); Easterbrook 162 (suggesting that “every one of the 
potentially-anticompetitive outcomes of vertical arrange­
ments depends on the uniformity of the practice”). 
The source of the restraint may also be an important con­
sideration.  If there is evidence retailers were the impetus 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
898  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
for a vertical price restraint, there is a greater likelihood 
that the restraint facilitates a retailer cartel or supports a 
dominant, inefﬁcient retailer.  See Brief for William S. Com­
anor et al. as Amici Curiae 7–8.  If, by contrast, a manufac­
turer adopted the policy independent of retailer pressure, 
the restraint is less likely to promote anticompetitive con­
duct.  Cf. Posner 177 (“It makes all the difference whether 
minimum retail prices are imposed by the manufacturer in 
order to evoke point-of-sale services or by the dealers in 
order to obtain monopoly proﬁts”).  A manufacturer also has 
an incentive to protest inefﬁcient retailer-induced price re­
straints because they can harm its competitive position. 
As a ﬁnal matter, that a dominant manufacturer or retailer 
can abuse resale price maintenance for anticompetitive pur­
poses may not be a serious concern unless the relevant entity 
has market power.  If a retailer lacks market power, manu­
facturers likely can sell their goods through rival retailers. 
See also Business Electronics, supra, at 727, n. 2 (noting 
“[r]etail market power is rare, because of the usual presence 
of  interbrand  competition  and  other  dealers”).  And  if  a 
manufacturer lacks market power, there is less likelihood it 
can use the practice to keep competitors away from distribu­
tion outlets. 
The rule of reason is designed and used to eliminate anti­
competitive transactions from  the market.  This standard 
principle applies to vertical price restraints.  A party alleg­
ing injury from a vertical agreement setting minimum resale 
prices will have, as a general matter, the information and 
resources available to show the existence of the agreement 
and its scope of operation.  As courts gain experience con­
sidering the effects of these restraints by applying the rule 
of reason over the course of decisions, they can establish the 
litigation structure to ensure the rule operates to eliminate 
anticompetitive restraints from the market and to provide 
more guidance to businesses.  Courts can, for example, de­
vise rules over time for offering proof, or even presumptions 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  899 
Opinion of the Court 
where justiﬁed, to make the rule of reason a fair and efﬁcient 
way to prohibit anticompetitive restraints and to promote 
procompetitive ones. 
For all of the foregoing reasons, we think that were the 
Court considering the issue as an original matter, the rule 
of reason, not a per se rule of unlawfulness, would be the 
appropriate standard to judge vertical price restraints. 
IV 
We do not write on a clean slate, for the decision in Dr. 
Miles is almost a century old.  So there is an argument for 
its retention on the basis of stare decisis alone.  Even if Dr. 
Miles established an erroneous rule, “[s]tare decisis reﬂects 
a policy judgment that in most matters it is more important 
that the applicable rule of law be settled than that it be set­
tled right.”  Khan, 522 U. S., at 20 (internal quotation marks 
omitted).  And concerns about maintaining settled law are 
strong when the question is one of statutory interpretation. 
See, e. g., Hohn v. United States, 524 U. S. 236, 251 (1998). 
Stare decisis is not as signiﬁcant in this case, however, 
because the issue before us is the scope of the Sherman Act. 
Khan, supra, at 20 (“[T]he general presumption that legisla­
tive changes should be left to Congress has less force with 
respect  to  the  Sherman  Act”).  From  the  beginning  the 
Court has treated the Sherman Act as a common-law statute. 
See  National  Soc.  of  Professional  Engineers  v.  United 
States, 435 U. S. 679, 688 (1978); see also Northwest Airlines, 
Inc. v. Transport Workers, 451 U. S. 77, 98, n. 42 (1981) (“In 
antitrust, the federal courts . . . act more as common-law 
courts than  in other  areas governed  by federal  statute”). 
Just as the common law adapts to modern understanding and 
greater experience, so too does the Sherman Act’s prohibi­
tion on “restraint[s] of trade” evolve to meet the dynamics of 
present economic conditions.  The case-by-case adjudication 
contemplated by the rule of reason has implemented this 
common-law approach.  See National Soc. of Professional 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
900  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
Engineers, supra, at 688.  Likewise, the boundaries of the 
doctrine of per se illegality should not be immovable.  For 
“[i]t would make no sense to create out of the single term 
‘restraint  of  trade’  a  chronologically  schizoid  statute,  in 
which a ‘rule of reason’ evolves with new circumstances and 
new wisdom, but a line of per se illegality remains forever 
ﬁxed where it was.”  Business Electronics, 485 U. S., at 732. 
A 
Stare decisis, we conclude, does not compel our continued 
adherence to the per se rule against vertical price restraints. 
As discussed earlier, respected authorities in the economics 
literature suggest the per se rule is inappropriate, and there 
is now widespread agreement that resale price maintenance 
can have procompetitive effects.  See, e. g., Brief for Econo­
mists as Amici Curiae 16.  It is also signiﬁcant that both 
the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commis­
sion—the antitrust enforcement agencies with the ability to 
assess the long-term impacts of resale price maintenance— 
have recommended that this Court replace the per se rule 
with the traditional rule of reason.  See Brief for United 
States as Amicus Curiae 6.  In the antitrust context the 
fact that a decision has been “called into serious question” 
justiﬁes our reevaluation of it.  Khan, supra, at 21. 
Other  considerations  reinforce  the  conclusion  that  Dr. 
Miles should be overturned.  Of most relevance, “we have 
overruled our precedents when subsequent cases have un­
dermined  their  doctrinal  underpinnings.”  Dickerson  v. 
United States, 530 U. S. 428, 443 (2000).  The Court’s treat­
ment of vertical restraints has progressed away from Dr. 
Miles’ strict approach.  We have distanced ourselves from 
the  opinion’s  rationales.  See  supra,  at  887–889;  see  also 
Khan, supra, at 21 (overruling a case when “the views un­
derlying [it had been] eroded by this Court’s precedent”); 
Rodriguez de Quijas v.  Shearson/American Express, Inc., 
490 U. S. 477, 480–481 (1989) (same).  This is unsurprising, 
for the case was decided not long after enactment of the 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  901 
Opinion of the Court 
Sherman Act when the Court had little experience with anti­
trust analysis.  Only eight years after Dr. Miles, moreover, 
the Court reined in the decision by holding that a manufac­
turer can announce suggested resale prices and refuse to 
deal with distributors who do not follow them.  Colgate, 250 
U. S., at 307–308. 
In more recent cases the Court, following a common-law 
approach, has continued to temper, limit, or overrule once 
strict prohibitions on vertical restraints.  In 1977, the Court 
overturned the per se rule for vertical nonprice restraints, 
adopting the rule of reason in its stead.  GTE Sylvania, 
433  U. S.,  at  57–59  (overruling  United  States  v.  Arnold, 
Schwinn & Co., 388 U. S. 365 (1967)); see also 433 U. S., at 
58, n. 29 (noting “that the advantages of vertical restrictions 
should not be limited to the categories of new entrants and 
failing ﬁrms”).  While the Court in a footnote in GTE Syl­
vania suggested that differences between vertical price and 
nonprice restraints could support different legal treatment, 
see id., at 51, n. 18, the central part of the opinion relied 
on authorities and arguments that ﬁnd unequal treatment 
“difﬁcult to justify,” id., at 69–70 (White, J., concurring in 
judgment). 
Continuing in this direction, in two cases in the 1980’s the 
Court deﬁned legal rules to limit the reach of Dr. Miles and 
to accommodate the doctrines enunciated in GTE Sylvania 
and  Colgate.  See  Business  Electronics,  supra,  at  726– 
728;  Monsanto, 465  U. S.,  at  763–764.  In  Monsanto,  the 
Court required that antitrust plaintiffs alleging a § 1 price­
ﬁxing conspiracy must present evidence tending to exclude 
the possibility a manufacturer and its distributors acted in an 
independent manner.  Id., at 764.  Unlike Justice Brennan’s 
concurrence,  which  rejected  arguments  that  Dr.  Miles 
should be overruled, see 465 U. S., at 769, the Court “de­
cline[d] to reach the question” whether vertical agreements 
ﬁxing resale prices always should be unlawful because nei­
ther party suggested otherwise, id., at 761–762, n. 7.  In 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
902  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
Business Electronics the Court further narrowed the scope 
of Dr. Miles.  It held that the per se rule applied only to 
speciﬁc agreements over price levels and not to an agree­
ment between a manufacturer and a distributor to terminate 
a price-cutting distributor.  485 U. S., at 726–727, 735–736. 
Most recently, in 1997, after examining the issue of vertical 
maximum  price-ﬁxing  agreements  in  light  of  commentary 
and real experience, the Court overruled a 29-year-old prece­
dent treating those agreements as per se illegal.  Khan, 522 
U. S., at 22 (overruling Albrecht v. Herald Co., 390 U. S. 145 
(1968)).  It held instead that they should be evaluated under 
the traditional rule of reason.  522 U. S., at 22.  Our contin­
ued limiting of the reach of the decision in Dr. Miles and 
our recent treatment of other vertical restraints justify the 
conclusion that Dr. Miles should not be retained. 
The Dr. Miles rule is also inconsistent with a principled 
framework, for it makes little economic sense when analyzed 
with our other cases on vertical restraints.  If we were to 
decide the procompetitive effects of resale price maintenance 
were insufﬁcient to overrule Dr. Miles, then cases such as 
Colgate and GTE Sylvania themselves would be called into 
question.  These later decisions, while they may result in 
less intrabrand competition, can be justiﬁed because they 
permit manufacturers to secure the procompetitive beneﬁts 
associated with vertical price restraints through other meth­
ods.  The other methods, however, could be less efﬁcient for 
a particular manufacturer to establish and sustain.  The end 
result  hinders  competition  and  consumer  welfare  because 
manufacturers are forced to engage in second-best alterna­
tives and because consumers are required to shoulder the 
increased expense of the inferior practices. 
The manufacturer has a number of legitimate options to 
achieve beneﬁts similar to those provided by vertical price 
restraints.  A manufacturer can exercise its Colgate right to 
refuse to deal with retailers that do not follow its suggested 
prices.  See 250 U. S., at 307.  The economic effects of uni­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  903 
Opinion of the Court 
lateral and concerted price setting are in general the same. 
See, e. g., Monsanto, 465 U. S., at 762–764.  The problem for 
the manufacturer is that a jury might conclude its unilateral 
policy was really a vertical agreement, subjecting it to treble 
damages  and  potential  criminal  liability.  Ibid.;  Business 
Electronics, supra, at 728.  Even with the stringent stand­
ards in Monsanto and Business Electronics, this danger can 
lead, and has led, rational manufacturers to take wasteful 
measures.  See, e. g., Brief for PING, Inc., as Amicus Cu­
riae 9–18.  A manufacturer might refuse to discuss its pric­
ing  policy  with  its  distributors  except  through  counsel 
knowledgeable  of  the  subtle  intricacies  of  the  law.  Or  it 
might terminate longstanding distributors for minor viola­
tions without seeking an explanation.  See ibid.  The in­
creased costs these burdensome measures generate ﬂow to 
consumers in the form of higher prices. 
Furthermore, depending on the type of product it sells, a 
manufacturer might be able to achieve the procompetitive 
beneﬁts of resale price maintenance by integrating down­
stream and selling its products directly to consumers.  Dr. 
Miles tilts the relative costs of vertical integration and verti­
cal agreement by making the former more attractive based 
on the per se rule, not on real market conditions.  See Busi­
ness Electronics, supra, at 725; see generally Coase, The Na­
ture of the Firm, 4 Economica, New Series 386 (1937).  This 
distortion might lead to inefﬁcient integration that would not 
otherwise take place, so that consumers must again suffer 
the  consequences  of  the  suboptimal  distribution  strategy. 
And integration, unlike vertical price restraints, eliminates 
all intrabrand competition.  See, e. g., GTE Sylvania, supra, 
at 57, n. 26. 
There is yet another consideration.  A manufacturer can 
impose territorial restrictions on distributors and allow only 
one distributor to sell its goods in a given region.  Our cases 
have recognized, and the economics literature conﬁrms, that 
these vertical nonprice restraints have impacts similar to 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
904  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
those  of  vertical  price  restraints;  both  reduce  intrabrand 
competition and can stimulate retailer services.  See, e. g., 
Business Electronics, supra, at 728; Monsanto, supra, at 
762–763; see also Brief for Economists as Amici Curiae 17– 
18.  Cf. Scherer & Ross 560 (noting that vertical nonprice 
restraints “can engender inefﬁciencies at least as serious as 
those imposed upon the consumer by resale price mainte­
nance”); Steiner, How Manufacturers Deal with the Price-
Cutting Retailer: When Are Vertical Restraints Efﬁcient? 
65 Antitrust L. J. 407, 446–447 (1997) (indicating that “anti­
trust  law  should  recognize  that  the  consumer  interest  is 
often better served by [resale price maintenance]—contrary 
to its per se illegality and the rule-of-reason status of verti­
cal nonprice restraints”).  The same legal standard (per se 
unlawfulness) applies to horizontal market division and hori­
zontal price ﬁxing because both have similar economic effect. 
There  is  likewise  little  economic  justiﬁcation  for  the  cur­
rent  differential  treatment  of  vertical  price  and  nonprice 
restraints.  Furthermore, vertical nonprice restraints may 
prove less efﬁcient for inducing desired services, and they 
reduce intrabrand competition more than vertical price re­
straints by eliminating both price and service competition. 
See Brief for Economists as Amici Curiae 17–18. 
In sum, it is a ﬂawed antitrust doctrine that serves the 
interests of lawyers—by creating legal distinctions that op­
erate as traps for the unwary—more than the interests of 
consumers—by requiring manufacturers to choose second­
best options to achieve sound business objectives. 
B 
Respondent’s arguments for reafﬁrming Dr. Miles on the 
basis of stare decisis do not require a different result.  Re­
spondent looks to congressional action concerning vertical 
price  restraints.  In  1937,  Congress  passed  the  Miller-
Tydings Fair Trade Act, 50 Stat. 693, which made vertical 
price  restraints  legal  if  authorized  by  a  fair  trade  law 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  905 
Opinion of the Court 
enacted by a State.  Fifteen years later, Congress expanded 
the exemption to permit vertical price-setting agreements 
between a manufacturer  and a distributor to  be enforced 
against  other  distributors  not  involved  in  the  agreement. 
McGuire Act, 66 Stat. 632.  In 1975, however, Congress re­
pealed both Acts.  Consumer Goods Pricing Act, 89 Stat. 
801.  That the Dr. Miles rule applied to vertical price re­
straints in 1975, according to respondent, shows Congress 
ratiﬁed the rule. 
This is not so.  The text of the Consumer Goods Pricing 
Act did not codify the rule of per se illegality for vertical 
price  restraints.  It  rescinded  statutory  provisions  that 
made them per se legal.  Congress once again placed these 
restraints within the ambit of § 1 of the Sherman Act.  And, 
as has been discussed, Congress intended § 1 to give courts 
the ability “to develop governing principles of law” in the 
common-law  tradition.  Texas  Industries,  Inc.  v.  Radcliff 
Materials, Inc., 451 U. S. 630, 643 (1981); see Business Elec­
tronics, 485 U. S., at 731 (“The changing content of the term 
‘restraint of trade’ was well recognized at the time the Sher­
man Act was enacted”).  Congress could have set the Dr. 
Miles rule in stone, but it chose a more ﬂexible option.  We 
respect its decision by analyzing vertical price restraints, 
like all restraints, in conformance with traditional § 1 princi­
ples,  including  the  principle  that  our  antitrust  doctrines 
“evolv[e] with new circumstances and new wisdom.”  Busi­
ness Electronics, supra, at 732; see also Easterbrook 139. 
The rule of reason, furthermore, is not inconsistent with 
the Consumer Goods Pricing Act.  Unlike the earlier con­
gressional  exemption,  it  does  not  treat  vertical  price  re­
straints as per se legal.  In this respect, the justiﬁcations 
for the prior exemption are illuminating.  Its goal “was to 
allow the States to protect small retail establishments that 
Congress thought might otherwise be driven from the mar­
ketplace by large-volume discounters.”  California Retail 
Liquor Dealers Assn. v. Midcal Aluminum, Inc., 445 U. S. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
906  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
97, 102 (1980).  The state fair trade laws also appear to have 
been justiﬁed  on similar grounds.  See Areeda  & Hoven­
kamp 298.  The rationales for these provisions are foreign to 
the Sherman Act.  Divorced from competition and consumer 
welfare, they were designed to save inefﬁcient small retail­
ers from their inability to compete.  The purpose of the anti­
trust laws, by contrast, is “the protection of competition, not 
competitors.”  Atlantic  Richﬁeld  Co.  v.  USA  Petroleum 
Co., 495 U. S. 328, 338 (1990) (internal quotation marks omit­
ted).  To the extent Congress repealed the exemption for 
some vertical price restraints to end its prior practice of en­
couraging anticompetitive conduct, the rule of reason pro­
motes the same objective. 
Respondent also relies on several congressional appropria­
tions in the mid-1980’s in which Congress did not permit the 
Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission to 
use funds to advocate overturning Dr. Miles.  See, e. g., 97 
Stat. 1071.  We need not pause long in addressing this argu­
ment.  The conditions on funding are no longer in place, see, 
e. g., Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 21, and they 
were ambiguous at best.  As much as they might show con­
gressional approval for Dr. Miles, they might demonstrate a 
different proposition: that Congress could not pass legisla­
tion codifying the rule and reached a short-term compro­
mise instead. 
Reliance interests do not require us to reafﬁrm Dr. Miles. 
To be sure, reliance on a judicial opinion is a signiﬁcant rea­
son to adhere to it, Payne v.  Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 828 
(1991), especially “in cases involving property and contract 
rights,” Khan, 522 U. S., at 20.  The reliance interests here, 
however, like the reliance interests in Khan, cannot justify 
an inefﬁcient rule, especially because the narrowness of the 
rule has allowed manufacturers to set minimum resale prices 
in other ways.  And while the Dr. Miles rule is longstand­
ing, resale price maintenance was legal under fair trade laws 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  907 
Opinion of the Court 
in a majority of States for a large part of the past century 
up until 1975. 
It is also of note that during this time “when the legal 
environment in the [United States] was most favorable for 
[resale price maintenance], no more than a tiny fraction of 
manufacturers ever employed [resale price maintenance] con­
tracts.”  Overstreet 6; see also id., at 169 (noting that “no 
more than one percent of manufacturers, accounting for no 
more than ten percent of consumer goods purchases, ever 
employed [resale price maintenance] in any single year in 
the [United States]”); Scherer & Ross 549 (noting that “[t]he 
fraction of U. S. retail sales covered by [resale price mainte­
nance] in its heyday has been variously estimated at from 4 
to  10  percent”).  To  the  extent  consumers  demand  cheap 
goods, judging vertical price restraints under the rule of rea­
son  will  not  prevent  the  market  from  providing  them. 
Cf. Easterbrook 152–153 (noting that “S.S. Kresge (the old 
K-Mart) ﬂourished during the days of manufacturers’ great­
est freedom” because “discount stores offer a combination 
of price and service that many customers value” and that 
“[n]othing in restricted dealing threatens the ability of con­
sumers to ﬁnd low prices”); Scherer & Ross 557 (noting that 
“for the most part, the effects of the [Consumer Goods Pric­
ing Act] were imperceptible because the forces of competi­
tion had already repealed the [previous antitrust exemption] 
in their own quiet way”). 
For these reasons the Court’s decision in Dr. Miles Medi­
cal Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373 (1911), is 
now overruled.  Vertical price restraints are to be judged 
according to the rule of reason. 
V 
Noting that Leegin’s president has an ownership interest 
in retail stores that sell Brighton, respondent claims Leegin 
participated in an unlawful horizontal cartel with competing 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
908  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
retailers.  Respondent did not make this allegation in the 
lower courts, and we do not consider it here. 
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and 
the case is remanded for proceedings consistent with this 
opinion. 
It is so ordered. 
Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Stevens, Justice 
Souter, and Justice Ginsburg join, dissenting. 
In Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 220 
U. S. 373, 394, 408–409 (1911), this Court held that an agree­
ment between a manufacturer of proprietary medicines and 
its dealers to ﬁx the minimum price at which its medicines 
could be sold was “invalid . . . under the [Sherman Act, 15 
U. S. C. § 1].”  This Court has consistently read Dr. Miles as 
establishing a bright-line rule that agreements ﬁxing mini­
mum  resale  prices  are  per  se  illegal.  See,  e. g.,  United 
States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, 399–401 (1927); 
NYNEX  Corp.  v.  Discon,  Inc.,  525  U. S.  128,  133  (1998). 
That per se rule is one upon which the legal profession, busi­
ness,  and  the  public  have  relied  for  close  to  a  century. 
Today the Court holds that courts must determine the law­
fulness of minimum resale price maintenance by applying, 
not a bright-line per se rule, but a circumstance-speciﬁc “rule 
of  reason.”  Ante,  at  907.  And  in  doing  so  it  overturns 
Dr. Miles. 
The Court justiﬁes its departure from ordinary considera­
tions of stare decisis by pointing to a set of arguments well 
known in the antitrust literature for close to half a century. 
See  ante,  at  889–892.  Congress  has  repeatedly  found  in 
these arguments insufﬁcient grounds for overturning the per 
se rule.  See, e. g., Hearings on H. R. 10527 et al. before the 
Subcommittee on Commerce and Finance of the House Com­
mittee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 85th Cong., 2d 
Sess., 74–76, 89, 99, 101–102, 192–195, 261–262 (1958).  And, 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  909 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
in my view, they do not warrant the Court’s now overturning 
so well-established a legal precedent. 
I 
The Sherman Act seeks to maintain a marketplace free 
of anticompetitive practices, in particular those enforced by 
agreement among private ﬁrms.  The law assumes that such 
a marketplace, free of private restrictions, will tend to bring 
about the lower prices, better products, and more efﬁcient 
production  processes  that  consumers  typically  desire.  In 
determining  the  lawfulness  of  particular  practices,  courts 
often apply a “rule of reason.”  They examine both a prac­
tice’s likely anticompetitive effects and its beneﬁcial business 
justiﬁcations.  See, e. g., National Collegiate Athletic Assn. 
v. Board of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468 U. S. 85, 109–110, 
and n. 39 (1984); National Soc. of Professional Engineers v. 
United States, 435 U. S. 679, 688–691 (1978); Board of Trade 
of Chicago v. United States, 246 U. S. 231, 238 (1918). 
Nonetheless, sometimes the likely anticompetitive conse­
quences of a particular practice are so serious and the poten­
tial justiﬁcations so few (or, e. g., so difﬁcult to prove) that 
courts have departed from a pure “rule of reason” approach. 
And sometimes this Court has imposed a rule of per se un­
lawfulness—a rule that instructs courts to ﬁnd the practice 
unlawful all (or nearly  all) the time.  See, e. g., NYNEX, 
supra, at 133; Arizona v.  Maricopa County Medical Soc., 
457 U. S. 332, 343–344, and n. 16 (1982); Continental T. V., 
Inc. v.  GTE Sylvania Inc., 433 U. S. 36, 50, n. 16 (1977); 
United States v. Topco Associates, Inc., 405 U. S. 596, 609– 
611  (1972);  United  States  v.  Socony-Vacuum  Oil  Co.,  310 
U. S. 150, 213–214 (1940) (citing and quoting Trenton Potter­
ies, supra, at 397–398). 
The case before us asks which kind of approach the courts 
should follow where minimum resale price maintenance is at 
issue.  Should they apply a per se rule (or a variation) that 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
910  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
would make minimum resale price maintenance always (or 
almost always) unlawful?  Should they apply a “rule of rea­
son”?  Were the Court writing on a blank slate, I would ﬁnd 
these questions difﬁcult.  But, of course, the Court is not 
writing on a blank slate, and that fact makes a considerable 
legal difference. 
To best explain why the question would be difﬁcult were 
we deciding it afresh, I brieﬂy summarize several classical 
arguments for and against the use of a per se rule.  The 
arguments focus on three sets of considerations, those in­
volving:  (1)  potential  anticompetitive  effects,  (2)  potential 
beneﬁts, and (3) administration.  The difﬁculty arises out of 
the fact that the different sets of considerations point in dif­
ferent  directions.  See,  e. g.,  8  P.  Areeda,  Antitrust  Law 
¶¶ 1628–1633,  pp.  330–392  (1st  ed.  1989)  (hereinafter 
Areeda);  8  P.  Areeda  &  H.  Hovenkamp,  Antitrust  Law 
¶¶ 1628–1633,  pp.  288–339  (2d  ed.  2004)  (hereinafter 
Areeda & Hovenkamp); Easterbrook, Vertical Arrangements 
and the Rule of Reason, 53 Antitrust L. J. 135, 146–152 (1984) 
(hereinafter Easterbrook); Pitofsky, In Defense of Discount­
ers: The No-Frills Case for a Per Se Rule Against Vertical 
Price Fixing, 71 Geo. L. J. 1487 (1983) (hereinafter Pitofsky); 
Scherer, The Economics of Vertical Restraints, 52 Antitrust 
L. J. 687, 706–707 (1983) (hereinafter Scherer); Posner, The 
Next Step in the Antitrust Treatment of Restricted Distri­
bution: Per Se Legality, 48 U. Chi. L. Rev. 6, 22–26 (1981); 
Brief for William S. Comanor et al. as Amici Curiae 7–10. 
On  the  one  hand,  agreements  setting  minimum  resale 
prices may have serious anticompetitive consequences.  In 
respect  to  dealers:  Resale  price  maintenance  agreements, 
rather  like  horizontal  price  agreements,  can  diminish  or 
eliminate price competition among dealers of a single brand 
or (if practiced generally by manufacturers) among multi­
brand dealers.  In doing so, they can prevent dealers from 
offering  customers  the  lower  prices  that  many  customers 
prefer; they can prevent dealers from responding to changes 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  911 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
in demand, say, falling demand, by cutting prices; they can 
encourage dealers to substitute service, for price, competi­
tion, thereby threatening wastefully to attract too many re­
sources into that portion of the industry; they can inhibit 
expansion  by  more  efﬁcient  dealers  whose  lower  prices 
might otherwise attract more customers, stiﬂing the devel­
opment  of  new,  more  efﬁcient  modes  of  retailing;  and  so 
forth.  See, e. g., 8 Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶ 1632c, at 319– 
321; Steiner, The Evolution and Applications of Dual-Stage 
Thinking,  49  The  Antitrust  Bulletin  877,  899–900  (2004); 
Comanor,  Vertical  Price-Fixing,  Vertical  Market  Restric­
tions, and the New Antitrust Policy, 98 Harv. L. Rev. 983, 
990–1000 (1985). 
In respect to producers: Resale price maintenance agree­
ments can help to reinforce the competition-inhibiting behav­
ior of ﬁrms in concentrated industries.  In such industries 
ﬁrms may tacitly collude, i. e., observe each other’s pricing 
behavior, each understanding that price cutting by one ﬁrm 
is likely to trigger price competition by all.  See 8 Areeda & 
Hovenkamp  ¶ 1632d,  at  321–323;  P.  Areeda  &  L.  Kaplow, 
Antitrust  Analysis  ¶¶ 231–233,  pp.  276–283  (4th  ed.  1988) 
(hereinafter Areeda & Kaplow).  Cf. United States v. Con­
tainer  Corp.  of  America,  393  U. S.  333  (1969);  Areeda  & 
Kaplow  ¶¶ 247–253,  at  327–348.  Where  that  is  so,  resale 
price maintenance can make it easier for each producer to 
identify (by observing retail markets) when a competitor has 
begun to cut prices.  And a producer who cuts wholesale 
prices without lowering the minimum resale price will stand 
to gain little, if anything, in increased proﬁts, because the 
dealer will be unable to stimulate increased consumer de­
mand by passing along the producer’s price cut to consumers. 
In  either  case,  resale  price  maintenance  agreements  will 
tend to prevent price competition from “breaking out”; and 
they  will  thereby  tend  to  stabilize  producer  prices.  See 
Pitofsky  1490–1491.  Cf.,  e. g.,  Container  Corp.,  supra,  at 
336–337. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
912  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
Those who express concern about the potential anticom­
petitive  effects  ﬁnd  empirical  support  in  the  behavior  of 
prices before, and then after, Congress in 1975 repealed the 
Miller-Tydings Fair Trade Act, 50 Stat. 693, and the McGuire 
Act, 66 Stat. 631.  Those Acts had permitted (but not re­
quired) individual States to enact “fair trade” laws author­
izing  minimum  resale  price  maintenance.  At  the  time  of 
repeal minimum resale price maintenance was lawful in 36 
States; it was unlawful in 14 States.  See Hearings on S. 408 
before the Subcommittee on Antitrust and Monopoly of the 
Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 94th Cong., 1st Sess., 173 
(1975) (hereinafter Hearings on S. 408) (statement of Thomas 
E. Kauper, Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division). 
Comparing prices in the former States with prices in the 
latter States, the Department of Justice argued that mini­
mum resale price maintenance had raised prices by 19% to 
27%.  See Hearings on H. R. 2384 before the Subcommittee 
on Monopolies and Commercial Law of the House Committee 
on the Judiciary, 94th Cong., 1st Sess., 122 (1975) (hereinafter 
Hearings on H. R. 2384) (statement of Keith I. Clearwaters, 
Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division). 
After repeal, minimum resale  price maintenance agree­
ments were unlawful per se in every State.  The Federal 
Trade  Commission  (FTC)  staff,  after  studying  numerous 
price  surveys,  wrote  that  collectively  the  surveys  “indi­
cate[d]  that  [resale  price  maintenance]  in  most  cases  in­
creased the prices of products sold with [resale price mainte­
nance].”  Bureau  of  Economics  Staff  Report  to  the  FTC, 
T. Overstreet, Resale Price Maintenance: Economic Theories 
and Empirical Evidence 160 (1983) (hereinafter Overstreet). 
Most economists today agree that, in the words of a promi­
nent antitrust treatise, “resale price maintenance tends to 
produce higher consumer prices than would otherwise be the 
case.”  8 Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶ 1604b, at 40 (ﬁnding “[t]he 
evidence . . . persuasive on this point”).  See also Brief for 
William S. Comanor et al. as Amici Curiae 4 (“It is uni­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  913 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
formly  acknowledged  that  [resale  price  maintenance]  and 
other vertical restraints lead to higher consumer prices”). 
On  the  other  hand,  those  favoring  resale  price  mainte­
nance have long argued that resale price maintenance agree­
ments can provide important consumer beneﬁts.  The ma­
jority lists two: First, such agreements can facilitate new 
entry.  Ante, at 891.  For example, a newly entering pro­
ducer  wishing  to  build  a  product  name  might  be  able  to 
convince dealers to help it do so—if, but only if, the pro­
ducer can assure those dealers that they will later recoup 
their investment.  Without resale price maintenance, late­
entering dealers might take advantage of the earlier invest­
ment and, through price competition, drive prices down to 
the point where the early dealers cannot recover what they 
spent.  By assuring the initial dealers that such later price 
competition will not occur, resale price maintenance can en­
courage  them  to  carry  the  new  product,  thereby  helping 
the  new  producer  succeed.  See  8  Areeda  &  Hovenkamp 
¶¶ 1617a, 1631b, at 193–196, 308.  The result might be in­
creased  competition  at  the  producer  level,  i. e.,  greater 
inter-brand competition, that brings with it net consumer 
beneﬁts. 
Second,  without  resale  price  maintenance  a  producer 
might ﬁnd its efforts to sell a product undermined by what 
resale price maintenance advocates call “free riding.”  Ante, 
at 890–891.  Suppose a producer concludes that it can suc­
ceed only if dealers provide certain services, say, product 
demonstrations, high quality shops, advertising that creates 
a certain product image, and so forth.  Without resale price 
maintenance, some dealers might take a “free ride” on the 
investment  that  others  make  in  providing  those  services. 
Such a dealer would save money by not paying for those 
services and could consequently cut its own price and in­
crease its own sales.  Under these circumstances, dealers 
might prove unwilling to invest in the provision of necessary 
services.  See, e. g., 8 Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶¶ 1611–1613, 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
914  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
1631c, at 126–165, 309–313; R. Posner, Antitrust Law 172– 
173 (2d ed. 2001); R. Bork, The Antitrust Paradox 290–291 
(1978) (hereinafter Bork); Easterbrook 146–149. 
Moreover, where a producer and not a group of dealers 
seeks a resale price maintenance agreement, there is a spe­
cial reason to believe some such beneﬁts exist.  That is be­
cause, other things being equal, producers should want to 
encourage price competition among their dealers.  By doing 
so they will often increase proﬁts by selling more of their 
product.  See Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 56, n. 24; Bork 290. 
And  that  is  so,  even  if  the  producer  possesses  sufﬁcient 
market  power  to  earn  a  supernormal  proﬁt.  That  is  to 
say, other things being equal, the producer will beneﬁt by 
charging his dealers a competitive (or even a higher-than­
competitive) wholesale price while encouraging price compe­
tition among them.  Hence, if the producer is the moving 
force, the producer must have some special reason for want­
ing resale price maintenance; and in the absence of, say, con­
centrated producer markets (where that special reason might 
consist of a desire to stabilize wholesale prices), that special 
reason may well reﬂect the special circumstances just de­
scribed:  new  entry,  “free  riding,”  or  variations  on  those 
themes. 
The upshot is, as many economists suggest, sometimes re­
sale price maintenance can prove harmful; sometimes it can 
bring beneﬁts.  See, e. g., Brief for Economists as Amici Cu­
riae 16; 8 Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶¶ 1631–1632, at 306–328; 
Pitofsky 1495; Scherer 706–707.  But before concluding that 
courts should consequently apply a rule of reason, I would 
ask such questions as, how often are harms or beneﬁts likely 
to occur?  How easy is it to separate the beneﬁcial sheep 
from the antitrust goats? 
Economic discussion, such as the studies the Court relies 
upon, can help provide answers to these questions, and in 
doing so, economics can, and should, inform antitrust law. 
But antitrust law cannot, and should not, precisely replicate 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  915 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
economists’ (sometimes conﬂicting) views.  That is because 
law, unlike economics, is an administrative system the effects 
of which depend upon the content of rules and precedents 
only as they are applied by judges and juries in courts and 
by lawyers advising their clients.  And that fact means that 
courts will often bring their own administrative judgment 
to bear, sometimes applying rules of per se unlawfulness to 
business  practices  even  when  those  practices  sometimes 
produce beneﬁts.  See, e. g., F. Scherer & D. Ross, Industrial 
Market Structure and Economic Performance 335–339 (3d 
ed. 1990) (hereinafter Scherer & Ross) (describing some cir­
cumstances  under  which  price-ﬁxing agreements  could  be 
more beneﬁcial than “unfettered competition,” but also not­
ing potential costs of moving from a per se ban to a rule of 
reasonableness assessment of such agreements). 
I have already described studies and analyses that suggest 
(though they cannot prove) that resale price maintenance can 
cause harms with some regularity—and certainly when deal­
ers are the driving force.  But what about beneﬁts?  How 
often,  for  example,  will  the  beneﬁts  to  which  the  Court 
points occur in practice?  I can ﬁnd no economic consensus 
on this point.  There is a consensus in the literature that 
“free  riding”  takes  place.  But  “free  riding”  often  takes 
place  in  the  economy  without  any  legal  effort  to  stop  it. 
Many visitors to California take free rides on the Paciﬁc 
Coast Highway.  We all beneﬁt freely from ideas, such as 
that of creating the ﬁrst supermarket.  Dealers often take a 
“free ride” on investments that others have made in building 
a product’s name and reputation.  The question is how often 
the “free riding” problem is serious enough signiﬁcantly to 
deter dealer investment. 
To be more speciﬁc, one can easily imagine a dealer who 
refuses to provide important presale services, say, a detailed 
explanation of how a product works (or who fails to provide 
a proper atmosphere in which to sell expensive perfume or 
alligator billfolds), lest customers use that “free” service (or 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
916  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
enjoy the psychological beneﬁt arising when a high-priced 
retailer stocks a particular brand of billfold or handbag) and 
then buy from another dealer at a lower price.  Sometimes 
this must happen in reality.  But does it happen often?  We 
do, after all, live in an economy where ﬁrms, despite Dr. 
Miles’  per  se  rule,  still  sell  complex  technical  equipment 
(as  well  as  expensive  perfume  and  alligator  billfolds)  to 
consumers. 
All this is to say that the ultimate question is not whether, 
but how much, “free riding” of this sort takes place.  And, 
after reading the briefs, I must answer that question with 
an uncertain “sometimes.”  See, e. g., Brief for William S. 
Comanor et al. as Amici Curiae 6–7 (noting “skepticism in 
the economic literature about how often [free riding] actually 
occurs”);  Scherer  &  Ross  551–555  (explaining  the  “severe 
limitations”  of  the  free-rider  justiﬁcation  for  resale  price 
maintenance); Pitofsky, Why Dr. Miles Was Right, 8 Regu­
lation, No. 1, pp. 27, 29–30 (Jan./Feb. 1984) (similar analysis). 
How easily can courts identify instances in which the bene­
ﬁts are likely to outweigh potential harms?  My own answer 
is, not very easily.  For one thing, it is often difﬁcult to iden­
tify who—producer or dealer—is the moving force behind 
any given  resale price  maintenance agreement.  Suppose, 
for  example,  several  large  multibrand  retailers  all  sell 
resale-price-maintained products.  Suppose further that 
small  producers  set  retail  prices  because  they  fear  that, 
otherwise, the large retailers will favor (say, by allocating 
better shelf space) the goods of other producers who practice 
resale price maintenance.  Who “initiated” this practice, the 
retailers hoping for considerable insulation from retail com­
petition, or the producers, who simply seek to deal best with 
the circumstances they ﬁnd?  For another thing, as I just 
said, it is difﬁcult to determine just when, and where, the 
“free  riding”  problem  is  serious  enough  to  warrant  legal 
protection. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  917 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
I recognize that scholars have sought to develop checklists 
and sets of questions that will help courts separate instances 
where anticompetitive harms are more likely from instances 
where  only  beneﬁts  are  likely  to  be  found.  See,  e. g.,  8 
Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶¶ 1633c–1633e, at 330–339.  See also 
Brief for William S. Comanor et al. as Amici Curiae 8–10. 
But applying these criteria in court is often easier said than 
done.  The Court’s invitation to consider the existence of 
“market power,” for example, ante, at 898, invites lengthy 
time-consuming argument among competing experts, as they 
seek to apply abstract, highly technical, criteria to often ill­
deﬁned markets.  And resale price maintenance cases, un­
like a major merger or monopoly case, are likely to prove 
numerous  and  involve  only  private  parties.  One  cannot 
fairly expect judges and juries in such cases to apply complex 
economic criteria without making a considerable number of 
mistakes, which themselves may impose serious costs.  See, 
e. g.,  H.  Hovenkamp,  The  Antitrust  Enterprise  105  (2005) 
(litigating a rule of reason case is “one of the most costly 
procedures in antitrust practice”).  See also Bok, Section 7 
of the Clayton Act and the Merging of Law and Economics, 
74 Harv. L. Rev. 226, 238–247 (1960) (describing lengthy FTC 
efforts to apply complex criteria in a merger case). 
Are there special advantages to a bright-line rule?  With­
out such a rule, it is often unfair, and consequently impracti­
cal, for enforcement ofﬁcials to bring criminal proceedings. 
And since enforcement resources are limited, that loss may 
tempt some producers or dealers to enter into agreements 
that are, on balance, anticompetitive. 
Given the uncertainties that surround key items in the 
overall balance sheet, particularly in respect to the “admin­
istrative” questions, I can concede to the majority that the 
problem is difﬁcult.  And, if forced to decide now, at most 
I might agree that the per se rule should be slightly modi­
ﬁed to allow an exception for the more easily identiﬁable 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
918  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
and temporary condition of “new entry.”  See Pitofsky 1495. 
But I am not now forced to decide this question.  The ques­
tion before us is not what should be the rule, starting from 
scratch.  We here must decide whether to change a clear 
and simple price-related antitrust rule that the courts have 
applied for nearly a century. 
II 
We write, not on a blank slate, but on a slate that begins 
with Dr. Miles and goes on to list a century’s worth of simi­
lar cases, massive amounts of advice that lawyers have pro­
vided their clients, and untold numbers of business decisions 
those clients have taken in reliance upon that advice.  See, 
e. g., United States v. Bausch & Lomb Optical Co., 321 U. S. 
707, 721 (1944); Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 51, n. 18 (“The per se 
illegality of [vertical] price restrictions has been established 
ﬁrmly for many years . . . ”).  Indeed, a Westlaw search 
shows that Dr. Miles itself has been cited dozens of times in 
this Court and hundreds of times in lower courts.  Those 
who wish this Court to change so well-established a legal 
precedent bear a heavy burden of proof.  See Illinois Brick 
Co. v. Illinois, 431 U. S. 720, 736 (1977) (noting, in declining 
to overrule an earlier case interpreting § 4 of the Clayton 
Act, that “considerations of stare decisis weigh heavily in 
the area of statutory construction, where Congress is free to 
change this Court’s interpretation of its legislation”).  I am 
not aware of any case in which this Court has overturned 
so  well-established  a  statutory  precedent.  Regardless,  I 
do not see how the Court can claim that ordinary criteria 
for  overruling  an  earlier  case  have  been  met.  See,  e. g., 
Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey, 505 U. S. 
833, 854–855 (1992).  See also Federal Election Comm’n v. 
Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc., ante, at 500–503 (Scalia, J., 
concurring in part and concurring in judgment). 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  919 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
A 
I can ﬁnd no change in circumstances in the past several 
decades that helps the majority’s position.  In fact, there has 
been one important change that argues strongly to the con­
trary.  In 1975, Congress repealed the McGuire and Miller-
Tydings Acts.  See Consumer Goods Pricing Act of 1975, 89 
Stat. 801.  And it thereby consciously extended Dr. Miles’ 
per se rule.  Indeed, at that time the Department of Justice 
and the FTC, then urging application of the per se rule, dis­
cussed  virtually  every  argument  presented  now  to  this 
Court as well as others not here presented.  And they ex­
plained to Congress why Congress should reject them.  See 
Hearings  on  S.  408,  at  176–177  (statement  of  Thomas  E. 
Kauper, Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division); id., 
at 170–172 (testimony of Lewis A. Engman, Chairman of the 
FTC); Hearings on H. R. 2384, at 113–114 (testimony of Keith 
I. Clearwaters, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Anti­
trust  Division).  Congress  fully  understood,  and  conse­
quently intended, that the result of its repeal of McGuire 
and Miller-Tydings would be to make minimum resale price 
maintenance per se unlawful.  See, e. g., S. Rep. No. 94–466, 
pp. 1–3 (1975) (“Without [the exemptions authorized by the 
Miller-Tydings and McGuire Acts,] the agreements they au­
thorize would violate the antitrust laws. . . . [R]epeal of the 
fair trade laws generally will prohibit manufacturers from 
enforcing resale prices”).  See also Sylvania, supra, at 51, 
n. 18 (“Congress recently has expressed its approval of a per 
se analysis of vertical price restrictions by repealing those 
provisions of the Miller-Tydings and McGuire Acts allowing 
fair-trade pricing at the option of the individual States”). 
Congress did not prohibit this Court from reconsidering 
the per se rule.  But enacting major legislation premised 
upon the existence of that rule constitutes important public 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
920  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
reliance upon that rule.  And doing so aware of the relevant 
arguments  constitutes  even  stronger  reliance  upon  the 
Court’s keeping the rule, at least in the absence of some sig­
niﬁcant change in respect to those arguments. 
Have there been any such changes?  There have been a 
few economic studies, described in some of the briefs, that 
argue, contrary to the testimony of the Justice Department 
and the FTC to Congress in 1975, that resale price mainte­
nance is not harmful.  One study, relying on an analysis of 
litigated resale price maintenance cases from 1975 to 1982, 
concludes that resale price maintenance does not ordinarily 
involve producer or dealer collusion.  See Ippolito, Resale 
Price Maintenance: Empirical Evidence from Litigation, 34 
J. Law & Econ. 263, 281–282, 292 (1991).  But this study 
equates the failure of plaintiffs to allege collusion with the 
absence of collusion—an equation that overlooks the super­
ﬂuous nature of allegations of horizontal collusion in a resale 
price maintenance case and the tacit form that such collusion 
might take.  See H. Hovenkamp, Federal Antitrust Policy 
§ 11.3c, p. 464, n. 19 (3d ed. 2005); supra, at 911. 
The other study provides a theoretical basis for concluding 
that resale price maintenance “need not lead to higher retail 
prices.”  Marvel  &  McCafferty,  The  Political  Economy  of 
Resale Price Maintenance, 94 J. Pol. Econ. 1074, 1075 (1986). 
But  this  study  develops  a  theoretical  model  “under  the 
assumption  that  [resale  price  maintenance]  is  efﬁciency­
enhancing.”  Ibid.  Its  only  empirical  support  is  a  1940 
study that the authors acknowledge is much criticized.  See 
id., at 1091.  And many other economists take a different 
view.  See Brief for  William S. Comanor et  al. as Amici 
Curiae 4. 
Regardless,  taken  together,  these  studies  at  most  may 
offer  some  mild  support  for  the  majority’s  position.  But 
they cannot constitute a major change in circumstances. 
Petitioner and some amici have also presented us with 
newer studies that show that resale price maintenance some­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  921 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
times  brings  consumer  beneﬁts.  Overstreet  119–129  (de­
scribing numerous case studies).  But the proponents of a 
per se rule have always conceded as much.  What is remark­
able about the majority’s arguments is that nothing in this 
respect is new.  See supra, at 910, 919 (citing articles and 
congressional testimony going back several decades).  The 
only new feature of these arguments lies in the fact that the 
most current advocates of overruling Dr. Miles have aban­
doned a host of other not-very-persuasive arguments upon 
which  prior  resale  price  maintenance  proponents  used  to 
rely.  See, e. g., 8 Areeda ¶ 1631a, at 350–352 (listing “ ‘[t]ra­
ditional’ justiﬁcations” for resale price maintenance). 
The one arguable exception consists of the majority’s claim 
that  “even  absent  free  riding,”  resale  price  maintenance 
“may be the most efﬁcient way to expand the manufacturer’s 
market  share  by  inducing  the  retailer’s  performance  and 
allowing it to use its own initiative and experience in provid­
ing valuable services.”  Ante, at 892.  I cannot count this 
as an exception, however, because I do not understand how, 
in the absence of free riding (and assuming competitiveness), 
an  established  producer  would  need  resale  price  mainte­
nance.  Why, on these assumptions, would a dealer not “ex­
pand” its “market share” as best that dealer sees ﬁt, obtain­
ing  appropriate  payment  from  consumers  in  the  process? 
There may be an answer to this question.  But I have not 
seen it.  And I do not think that we should place signiﬁcant 
weight upon  justiﬁcations that  the parties do  not explain 
with sufﬁcient clarity for a generalist judge to understand. 
No one claims that the American economy has changed 
in ways that might support the majority.  Concentration in 
retailing has increased.  See, e. g., Brief for Respondent 18 
(since minimum resale price maintenance was banned nation­
wide in 1975, the total number of retailers has dropped while 
the growth in sales per store has risen); Brief for American 
Antitrust Institute as Amicus Curiae 17, n. 20 (citing private 
study reporting that the combined sales of the 10 largest 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
922  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
retailers worldwide has grown to nearly 30% of total retail 
sales of top 250 retailers; also quoting 1999 Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development report stating that 
the “ ‘last twenty years have seen momentous changes in re­
tail distribution including signiﬁcant increases in concentra­
tion’ ”);  Mamen,  Facing  Goliath:  Challenging  the  Impacts 
of  Supermarket  Consolidation  on  our  Local  Economies, 
Communities, and Food Security, The Oakland Institute, 1 
Policy  Brief,  No.  3,  pp. 1,  2  (Spring  2007),  http://www. 
oaklandinstitute.org/pdfs/facing_goliath.pdf (as visited June 
25, 2007, and available in Clerk of Court’s case ﬁle) (noting 
that “[f]or many decades, the top ﬁve food retail ﬁrms in the 
U. S. controlled less than 20 percent of the market”; from 
1997 to 2000, “the top ﬁve ﬁrms increased their market share 
from 24 to 42 percent of all retail sales”; and “[b]y 2003, they 
controlled  over  half  of  all  grocery  sales”).  That  change, 
other things being equal, may enable (and motivate) more 
retailers, accounting for a greater percentage of total retail 
sales volume, to seek resale price maintenance, thereby mak­
ing it more difﬁcult for price-cutting competitors (perhaps 
internet retailers) to obtain market share. 
Nor has anyone argued that concentration among manufac­
turers that might use resale price maintenance has dimin­
ished signiﬁcantly.  And as far as I can tell, it has not.  Con­
sider household electrical appliances, which a study from the 
late 1950’s suggests constituted a signiﬁcant portion of those 
products subject to resale price maintenance at that time. 
See Hollander, United States of America, in Resale Price 
Maintenance 67, 80–81 (B. Yamey ed. 1966).  Although it is 
somewhat difﬁcult to compare census data from 2002 with 
that from several decades ago (because of changes in the 
classiﬁcation system), it is clear that at least some subsets of 
the household electrical appliance industry are more concen­
trated, in terms of manufacturer market power, now than 
they were then.  For instance, the top eight domestic manu­
facturers of household cooking appliances accounted for 68% 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  923 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
of the domestic market (measured by value of shipments) in 
1963 (the earliest date for which I was able to ﬁnd data), 
compared  with  77%  in  2002.  See  Dept.  of  Commerce, 
Bureau  of  Census,  1972  Census  of  Manufactures,  Special 
Report  Series,  Concentration  Ratios  in  Manufacturing, 
No. MC72(SR)–2, p. SR2–38 (1975) (hereinafter 1972 Cen­
sus); Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of Census, 2002 Economic 
Census, Concentration Ratios: 2002, No. EC02–31SR–1, p. 55 
(2006) (hereinafter 2002 Census).  The top eight domestic 
manufacturers of household laundry equipment accounted for 
95% of the domestic market in 1963 (90% in 1958), compared 
with 99% in 2002.  1972 Census, at SR2–38; 2002 Census, 
at 55.  And the top eight domestic manufacturers of house­
hold refrigerators and freezers accounted for 91% of the do­
mestic market in 1963, compared with 95% in 2002.  1972 
Census, at SR2–38; 2002 Census, at 55.  Increased concen­
tration among manufacturers increases the likelihood that 
producer-originated  resale  price  maintenance  will  prove 
more prevalent today than in years past, and more harmful. 
At the very least, the majority has not explained how these, 
or  other  changes  in  the  economy,  could  help  support  its 
position. 
In sum, there is no relevant change.  And without some 
such  change,  there  is  no  ground  for  abandoning  a  well­
established antitrust rule. 
B 
With the preceding discussion in mind, I would consult the 
list of factors that our case law indicates are relevant when 
we consider overruling an earlier case.  Justice Scalia, 
writing separately in another of our cases this Term, well 
summarizes that law.  See Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc., 
ante, at 500–503 (opinion concurring in part and concurring 
in judgment).  And every relevant factor he mentions ar­
gues against overruling Dr. Miles here. 
First,  the  Court  applies  stare  decisis  more  “rigidly”  in 
statutory than in constitutional cases.  See Glidden Co. v. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
924  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
Zdanok, 370 U. S. 530, 543 (1962); Illinois Brick Co., 431 
U. S., at 736.  This is a statutory case. 
Second, the Court does sometimes overrule cases that it 
decided wrongly only a reasonably short time ago.  As Jus­
tice Scalia put it, “[o]verruling a constitutional case de­
cided just a few years earlier is far from unprecedented.” 
Wisconsin Right to Life, ante, at 501 (emphasis added).  We 
here  overrule  one  statutory case,  Dr.  Miles,  decided  100 
years ago, and we overrule the cases that reafﬁrmed its per 
se rule in the intervening years.  See, e. g., Trenton Potter­
ies, 273 U. S., at 399–401; Bausch & Lomb, 321 U. S., at 721; 
United States  v.  Parke,  Davis & Co.,  362 U. S.  29, 45–47 
(1960);  Simpson  v.  Union  Oil  Co.  of  Cal.,  377  U. S.  13, 
16–17 (1964). 
Third, the fact that a decision creates an “unworkable” 
legal regime argues in favor of overruling.  See Payne v. 
Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 827–828 (1991); Swift & Co.  v. Wick­
ham, 382 U. S. 111, 116 (1965).  Implementation of the per 
se rule, even with the complications attendant the exception 
allowed for in United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300 
(1919), has proved practical over the course of the last cen­
tury, particularly when compared with the many complexi­
ties of litigating a case under the “rule of reason” regime. 
No one has shown how moving from the Dr. Miles regime 
to “rule of reason” analysis would make the legal regime 
governing minimum resale price maintenance more “admin­
istrable,” Wisconsin Right to Life, ante, at 501 (opinion of 
Scalia, J.), particularly since Colgate would remain good law 
with respect to unreasonable price maintenance. 
Fourth, the fact that a decision “unsettles” the law may 
argue in favor of overruling.  See Sylvania, 433 U. S., at 47; 
Wisconsin Right to Life, ante, at 502 (opinion of Scalia, J.). 
The per se rule is well-settled law, as the Court itself has 
previously recognized.  Sylvania, supra, at 51, n. 18.  It is 
the majority’s change here that will unsettle the law. 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  925 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
Fifth, the fact that a case involves property rights or con­
tract rights, where reliance interests are involved, argues 
against  overruling.  Payne,  supra,  at  828.  This  case  in­
volves contract rights and perhaps property rights (consider 
shopping malls).  And there has been considerable reliance 
upon the per se rule.  As I have said, Congress relied upon 
the continued vitality of Dr. Miles when it repealed Miller-
Tydings and McGuire.  Supra, at 919–920.  The Executive 
Branch argued for repeal on the assumption that Dr. Miles 
stated the law.  Supra, at 919–920.  Moreover, whole sec­
tors of the economy have come to rely upon the per se rule. 
A factory outlet store tells us that the rule “form[s] an essen­
tial part of the regulatory background against which [that 
ﬁrm] and many other discount retailers have ﬁnanced, struc­
tured, and operated their businesses.”  Brief for Burlington 
Coat Factory Warehouse Corp. as Amicus Curiae 5.  The 
Consumer  Federation  of  America  tells  us  that  large  low­
price retailers would not exist without Dr. Miles; minimum 
resale  price  maintenance,  “by  stabilizing  price  levels  and 
preventing low-price competition, erects a potentially insur­
mountable barrier to entry for such low-price innovators.” 
Brief for Consumer Federation of America as Amicus Cu­
riae 5, 7–9 (discussing, inter alia, comments by Wal-Mart’s 
founder 25 years ago that relaxation of the per se ban on 
minimum resale price maintenance would be a “ ‘great dan­
ger’ ” to Wal-Mart’s then-relatively-nascent business).  See 
also Brief for American Antitrust Institute as Amicus Cu­
riae  14–15,  and  sources  cited  therein  (making  the  same 
point).  New  distributors,  including  internet  distributors, 
have similarly invested time, money, and labor in an effort 
to bring yet lower cost goods to Americans. 
This Court’s overruling of the per se rule jeopardizes this 
reliance, and more.  What about malls built on the assump­
tion that a discount distributor will remain an anchor tenant? 
What about home buyers who have taken a home’s distance 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
926  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
from such a mall into account?  What about Americans, pro­
ducers, distributors, and consumers, who have understand­
ably assumed, at least for the last 30 years, that price compe­
tition  is  a  legally  guaranteed  way  of  life?  The  majority 
denies  none  of  this.  It  simply  says  that  these  “reliance 
interests . . . , like the reliance interests in [State Oil Co. v.] 
Khan, [522 U. S. 3 (1997),] cannot justify an inefﬁcient rule.” 
Ante, at 906. 
The Court minimizes the importance of this reliance, add­
ing that it “is also of note” that at the time resale price main­
tenance contracts were lawful “ ‘no more than a tiny fraction 
of  manufacturers  ever  employed’ ”  the  practice.  Ante,  at 
907  (quoting  Overstreet  6).  By  “tiny”  the  Court  means 
manufacturers that accounted for up to “ ‘ten percent of con­
sumer  goods  purchases’ ”  annually.  Ante,  at  907.  That 
ﬁgure in today’s economy equals just over $300 billion.  See 
Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of Census, Statistical Abstract 
of the United States: 2007, p. 649 (126th ed.) (over $3 trillion 
in U. S. retail sales in 2002).  Putting the Court’s estimate 
together with the Justice Department’s early 1970’s study 
translates a legal regime that permits all resale price main­
tenance into retail bills that are higher by an average of 
roughly $750 to $1,000 annually for an American family of 
four.  Just how much higher retail bills will be after the 
Court’s decision today, of course, depends upon what is now 
unknown, namely, how courts will decide future cases under 
a  “rule  of  reason.”  But  these  ﬁgures  indicate  that  the 
amounts involved are important to American families and 
cannot be dismissed as “tiny.” 
Sixth, the fact that a rule of law has become “embedded” 
in our “national culture” argues strongly against overruling. 
Dickerson v.  United States, 530 U. S. 428, 443–444 (2000). 
The per se  rule forbidding minimum resale  price mainte­
nance agreements has long been “embedded” in the law of 
antitrust.  It involves price, the economy’s “ ‘central nervous 
system.’ ”  National  Soc.  of  Professional  Engineers,  435 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  927 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
U. S., at 692 (quoting Socony-Vacuum Oil, 310 U. S., at 226, 
n. 59).  It reﬂects a basic antitrust assumption (that consum­
ers often prefer lower prices to more service).  It embod­
ies a basic antitrust objective (providing consumers with a 
free choice about such matters).  And it creates an easily 
administered  and  enforceable  bright  line,  “Do  not  agree 
about price,” that businesses as well as lawyers have long 
understood. 
The only contrary stare decisis factor that the majority 
mentions consists of its claim that this Court has “[f]rom the 
beginning . . .  treated the Sherman Act as a common-law 
statute,” and has previously overruled antitrust precedent. 
Ante, at 899, 900–902.  It points in support to State Oil Co. 
v. Khan, 522 U. S. 3 (1997), overruling Albrecht v. Herald Co., 
390 U. S. 145 (1968), in which this Court had held that maxi­
mum resale price agreements were unlawful per se, and to 
Sylvania, overruling United States v.  Arnold, Schwinn & 
Co., 388 U. S. 365 (1967), in which this Court had held that 
producer-imposed territorial limits were unlawful per se. 
The  Court  decided  Khan,  however,  29  years  after  Al­
brecht—still a signiﬁcant period, but nowhere close to the 
century Dr. Miles has stood.  The Court speciﬁcally noted 
the lack of any signiﬁcant reliance upon Albrecht.  522 U. S., 
at 18–19 (Albrecht has had “little or no relevance to ongoing 
enforcement of the Sherman Act”).  Albrecht had far less 
support in traditional antitrust principles than did Dr. Miles. 
Compare, e. g., 8 Areeda & Hovenkamp ¶ 1632, at 316–328 
(analyzing potential harms of minimum resale price mainte­
nance),  with  id.,  ¶ 1637,  at  352–361  (analyzing  potential 
harms  of  maximum  resale  price  maintenance).  See  also, 
e. g., Pitofsky 1490, n. 17.  And Congress had nowhere ex­
pressed support for Albrecht’s rule.  Khan, supra, at 19. 
In Sylvania, the Court, in overruling Schwinn, explicitly 
distinguished Dr. Miles on the ground that while Congress 
had “recently . . . expressed its approval of a per se analy­
sis of vertical price restrictions” by repealing the Miller­

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
928  LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS, INC. v. 
PSKS, INC. 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
Tydings and McGuire Acts, “[n]o similar expression of con­
gressional  intent  exists  for  nonprice  restrictions.”  433 
U. S., at 51, n. 18.  Moreover, the Court decided Sylvania 
only a decade after Schwinn.  And it based its overruling 
on a generally perceived need to avoid “confusion” in the law, 
433 U. S., at 47–49, a factor totally absent here. 
The Court suggests that it is following “the common-law 
tradition.”  Ante, at 905.  But the common law would not 
have permitted overruling Dr. Miles in these circumstances. 
Common-law courts rarely overruled well-established earlier 
rules outright.  Rather, they would over time issue deci­
sions that gradually eroded the scope and effect of the rule 
in question, which might eventually lead the courts to put 
the rule to rest.  One can argue that modifying the per se 
rule to make an exception, say, for new entry, see Pitofsky 
1495, could prove consistent with this approach.  To swallow 
up a century-old precedent, potentially affecting many bil­
lions of dollars of sales, is not.  The reader should compare 
today’s “common-law” decision with Justice Cardozo’s deci­
sion  in  Allegheny  College  v.  National  Chautauqua  Cty. 
Bank of Jamestown, 246 N. Y. 369, 159 N. E. 173 (1927), and 
note a gradualism that does not characterize today’s decision. 
Moreover, a Court that rests its decision upon economists’ 
views of the economic merits should also take account of 
legal scholars’ views about common-law overruling.  Profes­
sors Hart and Sacks list 12 factors (similar to those I have 
mentioned) that support judicial “adherence to prior hold­
ings.”  They all support adherence to Dr. Miles here.  See 
H. Hart & A. Sacks, The Legal Process 568–569 (W. Esk­
ridge & P. Frickey eds. 1994).  Karl Llewellyn has written 
that the common-law judge’s “conscious reshaping” of prior 
law “must so move as to hold the degree of movement down 
to the degree to which need truly presses.”  The Bramble 
Bush 156 (1960).  Where here is the pressing need?  The 
Court notes that the FTC argues here in favor of a rule of 
reason.  See ante, at 900.  But both Congress and the FTC, 

NEW PAGE

551US2 Unit:$U74 [09-20-1121:22:06] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 877 (2007)  929 
Breyer, J., dissenting 
unlike courts, are well equipped to gather empirical evidence 
outside the context of a single case.  As neither has done 
so, we cannot conclude with conﬁdence that the gains from 
eliminating the per se rule will outweigh the costs. 
In sum, every stare decisis concern this Court has ever 
mentioned counsels against overruling here.  It is difﬁcult 
for  me  to  understand  how  one  can  believe  both  that 
(1) satisfying a set of stare decisis concerns justiﬁes over­
ruling a recent constitutional decision, Wisconsin Right to 
Life, Inc., ante, at 500–503 (Scalia, J., joined by Kennedy 
and Thomas, JJ., concurring in part and concurring in judg­
ment), but (2) failing to satisfy any of those same concerns 
nonetheless permits overruling a longstanding statutory de­
cision.  Either those concerns are relevant or they are not. 
* * * 
The only safe predictions to make about today’s decision 
are that it will likely raise the price of goods at retail and 
that  it  will  create  considerable  legal  turbulence  as  lower 
courts seek to develop workable principles.  I do not believe 
that the majority has shown new or changed conditions suf­
ﬁcient to warrant overruling a decision of such long standing. 
All ordinary stare decisis considerations indicate the con­
trary.  For these reasons, with respect, I dissent. 

NEW PAGE