OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus
AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO. v.
CENTRAL  OFFICE  TELEPHONE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES  COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 97-679.  Argued March 23, 1998-Decided June 15, 1998
Respondent purchases "bulk" communications services from long-distance
providers, such as petitioner AT&T, and resells them to its customers.
Petitioner, as a common carrier under the Communications Act of 1934,
must file with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) "tariffs"
containing  all its  "charges"  for interstate  services and  all  "classifi-
cations, practices, and regulations affecting such charges," 47 U. S. C.
§ 203(a).  A carrier may not "extend to any person any privileges or
facilities in such communication, or employ or enforce any classifications,
regulations,  or practices  affecting  such  charges,  except as  specified
in such  [tariff]."  §203(c).  The FCC requires  carriers  to sell long-
distance services to resellers under the same rates, terms, and condi-
tions as apply to other customers.  In 1989, petitioner agreed to sell
respondent a long-distance  service, which, under the parties' written
subscription agreements, would be governed by the rates, terms, and
conditions in the appropriate AT&T tariffs.  Respondent soon experi-
enced problems with the service it received,  and withdrew from the
contract before the expiration date.  Meanwhile, it had sued petitioner
in Federal  District Court, asserting, inter alia, state-law claims  for
breach of contract and for tortious interference with contractual rela-
tions (viz., respondent's  contracts with its customers), the latter claim
derivative of the former.  Respondent alleged that petitioner had prom-
ised and failed to deliver various service, provisioning, and billing op-
tions in addition to those set forth in the tariff, and that petitioner's
conduct was willful, so that consequential damages were available under
the tariff.  The Magistrate Judge rejected petitioner's  argument that
the  claims  were  pre-empted  by  § 203's  filed-tariff  requirements;  he
declined, however, to instruct on punitive damages  for the tortious-
interference claim.  The jury found for respondent and awarded dam-
ages.  The Ninth Circuit affirmed the judgment, but reversed the Mag-
istrate Judge's failure to instruct on punitive damages and remanded for
a trial on that aspect of the case.
Held. The Communications Act's filed-tariff requirements  pre-empt re-
spondent's state-law claims.  Pp. 221-228.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Syllabus
(a) Sections 203(a) and (c)ar e modeled after similar provisions of the
Interstate Commerce Act (ICA), and the "filed rate doctrine" associated
with the ICA tariff provisions applies to the Communications Act as
well.  MCI Telecommunications Corp. v. American Telephone & Tele-
graph Co., 512 U.S. 218, 229-231.  Under that doctrine, the rate a car-
rier duly files is the only lawful charge.  Louisville & Nashville R. Co.
v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94, 97.  Even if a carrier intentionally misrepre-
sents its rate and a customer relies on the misrepresentation, the carrier
cannot be held to the promised rate if it conflicts with the published
tariff.  Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 653.  That
this case involves services and billing rather than rates or ratesetting
does not make the filed rate doctrine inapplicable.  Since rates have
meaning only when one knows the services to which they are attached,
any claim for excessive rates can be couched as a claim for inadequate
services and vice versa.  The Communications Act recognizes this in
the §§203(a) and (c)re quirements, and the cases decided under the ICA
make it clear that discriminatory privileges are not limited to discounted
rates, see, e. g., United States v. Wabash R. Co., 321 U. S. 403, 412-413.
Pp. 221-224.
(b) This Court's filed-rate cases involving special services claims can-
not be distinguished  on the ground that the services they involved
should have been included in the tarift  That is precisely the case here.
Even provisioning  and billing are  "covered" by the applicable  tariff.
Nor does it make any difference that petitioner provided the same serv-
ices, without charge, to other customers;  that only tends to show that
petitioner acted unlawfully with regard to the other customers as well.
Pp. 224-226.
(c) The analysis used in evaluating respondents contract claim applies
with equal force to its wholly  derivative tortious-interference  claim.
The Communications Act's saving clause does not dictate a different
result.  It copies the ICA's saving clause, which has long been held to
preserve only those rights that are not inconsistent with the statutory
filed-rate requirements.  Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260
U. S. 156, 163.  Finally, respondents argument that petitioner's willful
misconduct makes the relief awarded here consistent with the tariff is
rejected.  Pp. 226-228.
108 F. 3d 981, reversed.
ScALIA,  J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J.,  and  KENNEDY,  SoUTER,  THoMAs,  GINSBURG, and  BREYER,  JJ.,
joined.  REHNQUIsT, C. J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 228.  STE-
VENS,  J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 231.  O'CoNNo?, J.,to ok no
part in the consideration or decision of the case.

NEW PAGE

216  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
David W.  Carpenter argued  the  cause  for  petitioner.
With him on the briefs were Carter G. Phillips, Thomas W.
Merrill, Peter D. Keisler, and Marc E. Manly.
Bruce M. Hall argued  the  cause  and  ified  a brief for
respondent.*
JUSTICE SCALIA delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent  Central  Office  Telephone,  Inc.  (COT),  a re-
seller  of long-distance  communications  services,  sued peti-
tioner  AT&T,  a  provider  of long-distance  communications
services, under state law for breach of contract and tortious
interference  with  contract.  Petitioner  is  regulated  as  a
common  carrier under the Communications  Act of 1934, 48
Stat. 1064, as amended, 47 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.  The issue
before  us  is  whether the  federal  filed-tariff  requirements
of the Communications Act pre-empt respondent's state-law
claims.
I
Respondent  purchases  "bulk"  long-distance  services-
volume-discounted  services designed for large customers-
from long-distance  providers,  and  resells  them to  smaller
customers.  Like many other resellers in the telecommuni-
cations industry, respondent does not own or operate facili-
ties of its own; it is known as a "switchless reseller," which
is the industry nomenclature for arbitrageur.  Of course re-
spondent passes  along only a  portion of the bulk-purchase
discount  to its  aggregated  customers,  and  retains  the  re-
maining discount as profit.
Petitioner provides long-distance  services and, as a com-
mon carrier under the Communications  Act, § 153(h),  must
*Gary M. Epstein, Maureen E.  Mahoney, Teresa D. Baer, Walter H.
Alford,  William B.  Barfield, M. Robert Sutherland, and  Michael J
Zpevak filed a brief for the United States Telephone Association et al. as
amici curiae urging reversal.
Henry D. Levine, Ellen G. Block, and James S. Blaszak filed a brief for
the Ad Hoc Telecommunications Users Committee et al. as amici curiae.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
observe  certain  substantive  requirements  imposed by that
law.  Section 203 of the Act requires that common carriers
file "schedules" (also known as "tariffs") containing all their
"charges" for interstate services and all "classifications, prac-
tices,  and  regulations  affecting  such  charges."  §203(a).
The Federal Communications  Commission  (FCC), which is
the agency responsible for enforcing the Act, requires carri-
ers to sell long-distance services to resellers such as respond-
ent under the same rates, terms, and conditions as apply to
other customers.
Prior to  1989, petitioner  had  developed  a  type  of long-
distance service known as Software Defined Network (SDN),
designed to meet the needs of large companies with offices
in multiple  locations.  SDN  established  a  "virtual  private
network" that allowed  employees  in different  locations  to
communicate  easily.  For example, an employee in Washing-
ton  could  call  a  co-worker  in Denver  simply  by dialing a
four-digit  extension.  SDN  customers,  in  exchange  for  a
commitment to purchase large volumes of long-distance  com-
munication time, received this service at a rate much below
what it would otherwise cost.
Several  changes  to  SDN  in  1989  made  the  service  ex-
tremely attractive to resellers, such as respondent, who ag-
gregate  smaller customers.  Petitioner developed the capa-
bility to allow customers to use ordinary ("switched access")
telephone lines to connect locations to their SDN networks.
Previously, locations had to be connected  over special "dedi-
cated access" lines, which  are direct lines from a location's
telephone system to petitioner's long-distance  network, by-
passing  the switches  of the local  exchange  carrier.  Dedi-
cated access involves large fixed costs, so it is cost effective
only  when  a location  originates  a  large  volume  of  calls.
Switched access, in contrast, does not entail additional high
fixed costs, so it is better suited to small users and hence to
resellers.  Petitioner also instituted two pricing promotions
for SDN in 1989:  additional discounts  from the basic SDN

NEW PAGE

218  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
rates for customers  making large usage and duration com-
mitments, and waiver  of installation  charges  for customers
making  multiyear  commitments  (subject  to  penalties  for
early termination).  Petitioner also added a new billing op-
tion.  In addition to network billing, whereby petitioner pre-
pares a single bill that applies the tariffed rate to all usage at
all locations, petitioner started to offer multilocation billing
(MLB), which allows the SDN volume discounts to be appor-
tioned between an SDN customer and individual locations on
its network, with  the proportion being chosen  by the cus-
tomer.  Under this option, petitioner sends bills directly to
the customer's individual locations (which, in the case of re-
sellers, means to the reseller's customers) but the customer
(or reseller) remains responsible for all payments.  The tar-
iff provides, however, that petitioner is not responsible for
the  allocation  of  charges.  See  AT&T  Tariff FCC  No.  1,
§ 6.2.4 (1986), App. to Brief for Petitioner 24a.
Attracted  by these changes, in October 1989, respondent
approached  petitioner  regarding  its  possible  purchase  of
SDN.  LaDonna Kisor, a sales representative in petitioner's
Portland, Oregon, office, described the service and gave re-
spondent literature on SDN.  She predicted that petitioner
could establish an initial SDN network for respondent in four
to five months, and could thereafter add new locations within
30 days of receiving an order.  Respondent subscribed to a
tariffed switched-access  SDN plan under which the up-front
installation charges would be waived and respondent would
receive a  17% to 20% discount  off basic SDN rates in ex-
change for a 4-year commitment to purchase two million min-
utes of service annually.  Respondent  also requested MLB.
Petitioner  confirmed  respondent's  order,  stating  that  re-
spondent would obtain SDN  "'pursuant to the rates, terms
and conditions in AT&T's [FCC Tariff No. 1],"  and that the
provisions  of the tariff, "'including  limitations  on AT&T's
liabilities, shall govern your and AT&T's obligations and lia-
bilities  with  respect  to the  service  and  options you  have

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
selected."'  Brief for Petitioner  14.  Respondent  accepted
these terms in writing on October 30, 1989.
By February  1990, it had become apparent  that the de-
mand for SDN exceeded  petitioner's  expectations-largely
because of the switchless resellers attracted to the service.
Petitioner could not fill the volumes of switched-access  or-
ders  as  rapidly  as  dedicated  access  orders,  or  as  quickly
as  petitioner's  personnel  had  predicted.  Accordingly,  Ms.
Kisor notified respondent that it would take up to 90 days to
add  new  locations  after  the initial  SDN  was  established.
She suggested placing respondent's customers with another
AT&T service, the Multilocation Calling Plan (MLCP), until
they could be placed on SDN.  Respondent agreed to this,
and ordered MLCP.  Again, respondent signed a letter con-
firming that MLCP "'is  provided under the terms and condi-
tions stated in AT&T's Tariff F. C. C. Nos. 1 and 2."'  Brief
for Appellant in Nos. 94-36116, 94-36156 (CA9), p. 15.
Ms. Kisor informed respondent that its initial SDN net-
work was functioning in April 1990.  At that point, respond-
ent elected to increase to a larger SDN volume commitment
in order to  qualify for  a larger discount.  In  placing this
order, respondent signed a form stating that the SDN serv-
ice  "'WILL  BE  GOVERNED  BY  THE  RATES  AND
TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS  IN  THE  APPROPRIATE
AT&T TARIFFS."'  Brief for Petitioner 14-15.  Respond-
ent then began reselling SDN to its own customers and plac-
ing orders with petitioner that required petitioner to treat
respondent's  customers  as if they were new locations  on a
corporate SDN.
Almost from the outset, respondent experienced problems
with the network, including delays in provisioning (the filling
of orders) and in billing.  An additional billing problem was
especially damaging  to respondent:  respondent's customers
received bills reflecting 100% of the discount instead of the
50% respondent selected.  These problems continued, and in
October 1990, they led respondent to switch to network bill-

NEW PAGE

220  AMERICAN TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL  OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
ing.  Although  respondent continued to resell SDN, it was
ultimately unable to meet its usage commitment for the first
period in which it was applicable.  In September  1992, re-
spondent notified petitioner that it was terminating its SDN
service effective September 30, 1992, with 18 months remain-
ing on its contract.
Meanwhile,  on  November  27,  1991,  respondent had filed
suit against petitioner in the United  States District  Court
for the District of Oregon.  The complaint contained a vari-
ety of claims, none of which arose under the Communications
Act, and ultimately  two state-law  claims went  to trial:  (1)
breach of contract (including breach of an implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing); and (2) tortious interference
with contractual relations  (viz., respondents  contracts with
its customers).  Respondent's state-law claims rested on the
allegation that its contracts with petitioner were not limited
by petitioner's  tariff but also included certain understand-
ings respondent's president derived from reading petitioner's
brochures  and talking with its representatives.  According
to  respondent,  petitioner  promised  various  service,  provi-
sioning, and billing options in addition to those set forth in
the tariff.  Respondent also claimed that petitioner violated
its state-law implied duty of good faith and fair dealing by
taking actions that undermined the purpose  of the contract
for  respondent,  which  was  to  purchase  SDN  services  for
resale at a profit.  The tortious-interference  claim was de-
rivative  of the contract  claim.  Respondent  asserted that,
because respondent promised certain benefits of SDN to its
customers, and because petitioner provided competing serv-
ices, any intentional violation of petitioner's contractual du-
ties constituted tortious-interference with respondent's rela-
tionship with its customers.  Respondent also asserted that,
since petitioner's conduct was willful, consequential damages
were available under the terms of the tariff.  Petitioner fied
a counterclaim to recover $200,000 in unpaid tariffed charges

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
from April to October 1990, and  to obtain  the termination
charges that respondent did not pay in 1992.
Throughout the proceedings  in District Court, petitioner
argued that respondent's state-law contract  and tort claims
were pre-empted by the filed-tariff requirements  of § 203 of
the Act.  The Magistrate Judge rejected this argument and
instructed the jury to consider not only the written subscrip-
tion agreements, but also any statements made or documents
furnished before the parties signed the agreements "'if you
find that the parties intended that those statements or writ-
ten materials  form  part of their agreements."'  Brief for
Petitioner  18.  The  Magistrate  Judge  also  instructed  the
jury that it could  not find  for respondent  on  its contract
claims unless it found that petitioner engaged in willful mis-
conduct.  He  declined to instruct on punitive  damages  for
the tortious-interference claim.  The jury found for respond-
ent  on  its  state-law  claims,  rejected  petitioner's  counter-
claim,  and  awarded  respondent  $13  million  in lost profits.
The Magistrate Judge reduced the judgment to $1.154  mil-
lion, which represented. the lost profits  respondent claimed
during the period before it canceled SDN on September 30,
1992; he found that there was no competent evidence for lost
profits after that date.  The Court of Appeals, over a dissent
by Judge Brunetti, affirmed the judgment but reversed the
Magistrate Judge's  failure to instruct on punitive  damages
and  remanded  for a trial on  that aspect  of the  case.  108
F. 3d 981 (CA9 1997).  We granted certiorari to determine
whether the federal filed-rate requirements of § 203 pre-empt
respondent's claims.  522 U. S. 1024 (1997).
II
Section 203(a) of the Communications  Act requires every
common carrier to file with the FCC "schedules," i. e., tariffs,
"showing all charges" and "showing the classifications, prac-
tices,  and regulations  affecting  such  charges."  47  U. S. C.
§ 203(a).  Section 203(c) makes it unlawful for  a carrier  to

NEW PAGE

222  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE,  INC.
Opinion of the Court
"extend to  any  person any  privileges  or  facilities  in such
communication, or employ or enforce any classifications, reg-
ulations, or practices affecting such charges, except as speci-
fied in such schedule."  These provisions are modeled after
similar provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act (ICA) and
share its goal of preventing unreasonable and discriminatory
charges.  MCI  Telecommunications  Corp.  v.  American
Telephone & Telegraph Co.,  512  U. S. 218,  229-230  (1994).
Accordingly, the century-old "filed rate doctrine" associated
with the ICA tariff provisions applies to the Communications
Act as well.  See id., at 229-231; Arkansas Louisiana Gas
Co. v. Hall, 453 U. S. 571, 577 (1981);  cf. United States Nay.
Co. v. Cunard S. S. Co., 284 U. S. 474, 481 (1932).  In Louis-
ville & Nashville R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94, 97 (1915),
we described  the basic  contours  of the filed  rate doctrine
under the ICA:
"Under the Interstate Commerce Act, the rate of the
carrier  duly filed is the only lawful charge.  Deviation
from  it is  not permitted upon  any pretext.  Shippers
and travelers are charged with notice of it, and they as
well as the carrier must abide by it, unless it is found
by the Commission to be unreasonable.  Ignorance  or
misquotation  of rates  is  not  an  excuse  for  paying or
charging either less or more than the rate filed.  This
rule  is  undeniably  strict  and  it  obviously  may  work
hardship  in  some  cases,  but  it  embodies  the  policy
which has been adopted by Congress in the regulation
of  interstate  commerce  in  order  to  prevent  unjust
discrimination."
Thus, even if a carrier intentionally misrepresents  its rate
and a customer relies  on the misrepresentation,  the carrier
cannot be held to the promised rate if it conflicts with the
published tariff.  Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Carl, 227
U. S. 639, 653 (1913).

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
While  the ified  rate  doctrine  may  seem harsh  in  some
circumstances,  see, e.g.,  Maislin Industries, U.S.,  Inc. v.
Primary Steel, Inc., 497 U. S. 116, 130-131 (1990),  its strict
application  is  necessary  to  "prevent  carriers  from  inten-
tionally  'misquoting' rates to shippers as a means of offer-
ing them rebates or discounts,"  the very evil the filing re-
quirement seeks to prevent.  Id., at 127.  Regardless of the
carrier's motive-whether it seeks to benefit or harm a par-
ticular customer-the policy of nondiscriminatory rates is vi-
olated when similarly situated customers pay different rates
for the same services.  It is that antidiscriminatory policy
which lies at "the heart of the common-carrier section of the
Communications  Act."  MCI Telecommunications Corp. v.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co., supra, at 229.
The  Ninth Circuit  thought the  filed  rate  doctrine  inap-
plicable "[b]ecause this case does not involve rates or rate-
setting, but rather involves the provisioning of services and
billing."  108  F. 3d,  at 990.  Rates, however, do not  exist
in isolation.  They have meaning only when one knows the
services to which they are attached.  Any claim for exces-
sive rates can be couched as a claim for inadequate services
and vice versa.  "If 'discrimination in charges' does not in-
clude non-price  features, then the carrier  could defeat the
broad purpose of the statute by the simple expedient of pro-
viding an additional benefit at no additional charge....  An
unreasonable 'discrimination in charges,' that is, can come in
the form of a lower price for an equivalent service or in the
form of an enhanced service for an equivalent price."  Com-
petitive Telecommunications Assn. v. FCC,9 98 F. 2d 1058,
1062  (CADC  1993).  The  Communications  Act  recognizes
this  when  it  requires  the  filed  tariff  to  show  not  only
"charges,"  but also "the classifications,  practices, and regu-
lations  affecting  such  charges,"  47  U. S. C.  § 203(a);  and
when it makes it unlawful to "extend to any person any privi-
leges or facilities in such  communication,  or employ or en-

NEW PAGE

224  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
force  any  classifications,  regulations,  or practices  affecting
such  charges" except those set forth in the tariff, §203(c).
Unsurprisingly, the cases decided under the ICA make it
clear that discriminatory  "privileges" come in many guises,
and are not limited to discounted rates.  "[A]  preference  or
rebate is the necessary result of every violation of [the ana-
log to § 203(c) in the ICA] where the carrier renders or pays
for a service not covered by the prescribed tariffs."  United
States v. Wabash R. Co.,  321 U. S. 403, 412-413  (1944).  In
Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. Kirby, 225  U. S.  155  (1912),  we
rejected a shipper's breach-of-contract  claim against a rail-
road for failure to ship a carload of race horses by a particu-
larly fast train.  We held- that the contract was invalid as a
matter of law because the carrier's tariffs "did not provide
for an expedited service, nor for transportation by any par-
ticular train," and therefore the shipper received "an undue
advantage ...  that is not one open  to others in the same
situation."  Id., at 163, 165.  Similarly, in Davis v. Cornwell,
264 U. S. 560 (1924), we invalidated the carrier's agreement
to provide the shipper with a number of railroad cars  on a
specified day; such a special advantage, we said, "is illegal,
when not provided for in the tariff."  Id., at 562.  See also
Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Carl, supra, at 653;  Wight
v. United States, 167 U. S. 512, 517-518 (1897);  I. Lake, Dis-
crimination by Railroads and Other Public Utilities 310-315
(1947).
III
The  Ninth  Circuit  distinguished  the  Court's  filed  rate
cases involving claims for special services on the ground that
the services at issue there "should have been included in the
tariff  and  made  available  to  all"  because  "the  customer
would  have been  expected to pay a higher rate" for those
services.  108 F. 3d, at 989, n. 9.  But that is precisely the
case here.  Indeed, the additional services  and guarantees
that respondent claims it was  entitled to by virtue  of Ms.
Kisor's  representations  and  petitioner's  sales  brochures-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
viz.,  faster provisioning,  the allocation  of charges  through
multilocation billing, and various matters relating to depos-
its, calling cards, and service support, see 108 F. 3d, at 987-
988-all pertain to subjects that are specifically addressed
by the filed  tariff.  See  AT&T  Tariff FCC  No.  1, §2.5.10
(provisioning of orders); § 6.2.4 (allocation of charges); § 2.5.6
(deposits); § 2.5.12.B (calling cards); § 6.2.5 (service supports).
The  Ninth Circuit agreed that all of respondent's claims
except those relating to provisioning and billing would be
pre-empted if the ified rate doctrine applied.  108 F. 3d, at
990.  But even provisioning and billing are, in the relevant
sense,  "covered"  by the tariff.  For  example, whereas  re-
spondent asks to enforce a guarantee that orders would be
provisioned within 30 to 90 days, the tariff leaves it  up to
petitioner to "establis[h] and confir[m]"  a due date for provi-
sioning, requires that petitioner merely make "every reason-
able effort" to meet that due date, and if it  fails gives the
customer  no recourse  except to "cancel  the order  without
penalty or payment  of nonrecurring  charges."  §2.5.10(B).
Faster, guaranteed provisioning of orders for the same rate
is  certainly  a privilege  within  the  meaning  of 47  U. S. C.
§203(c)  and  the filed  rate doctrine.  Cf. Chicago & Alton
R. Co. v. Kirby, supra, at  163  (refusing to  enforce  prom-
ise for faster, guaranteed service not included in the tariff).
As for billing, whereas respondent claims that, pursuant to
the MLB  option, petitioner promised to allocate usage and
charges accurately  among respondent's customers, the tariff
provides  that  petitioner  "will  not  allocate  . . . usage  or
charges"  among  the  locations  on the  customer's  network
and "is not responsible for the way that the Customer may
allocate usage or charges."  AT&T Tariff FCC No. 1, § 6.2.4.
Any assurance by petitioner that it would allocate usage and
charges and take responsibility for the task would have been
in flat contradiction  of the tariff.  See Chesapeake & Ohio
R. Co. v. Westinghouse, Church, Kerr & Co.,  270 U. S. 260,
266 (1926).

NEW PAGE

226  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL  OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
Opinion of the Court
The Ninth Circuit distinguished respondents claims from
those in our fied-rate cases involving special services in one
other respect: according to respondent, the "special services"
that it sought were provided by petitioner, without charge,
to other customers, 108 F. 3d, at 989, n. 9.  Even if that were
so, the claim  for these services  would  still be pre-empted
under the filed rate doctrine.  To the extent respondent is
asserting discriminatory  treatment, its remedy is to bring
suit under § 202 of the Communications Act.'  To the extent
petitioner is claiming that its own claims for special services
are not really special because other companies get the same
preferences, "that would only tend to show that the practice
was unlawful [with regard to] the others as well."  United
States v. Wabash R. Co., supra, at 413.  Because respondent
asks for privileges  not included  in the tariff, its state-law
claims are barred in either case.
IV
Our  analysis  applies  with  equal  force  to  respondent's
tortious-interference  claim  because  that is wholly  deriva-
tive of the contract claim for additional and better services.
Respondent  contended  that the  tort  claim  Was  based  on
"AT&T's refusal to provide [respondent]  with certain types
of service"  and  the  Magistrate Judge  agreed, noting that
"'the claims in this case, even the tort claim,..,  stem from
the alleged failure of AT&T to comply with its contractual
relationship.'  2  Brief for Appellant in Nos. 94-36116,  94-
1Eight months after the close of discovery (and well after the 2-year
statute  of limitations  in the  Communications  Act,  §415),  respondent
sought leave to file a second amended complaint to add a § 202 claim.  The
Magistrate Judge denied the request.  Respondent  did not appeal that
ruling.
2 The dissent argues that "the jury's verdict on respondent's tort claim
is supported by evidence that went well beyond, and differed in nature
from, the contract claim," post, at 231, which the dissent asserts requires
us to remand this case rather than reverse the judgment.  This issue of
noncontract evidence neither was included within the question presented

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
Opinion of the Court
36156 (CA9), p. 33.  Respondent can no more obtain unlaw-
ful preferences under the cloak of a tort claim than it can by
contract.  "The rights as defined by the tariff cannot be var-
ied or enlarged by either  contract  or tort of the  carrier."
Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260 U. S. 156, 163
(1922); see also Maislin, 497 U. S., at 126.
The saving clause of the Communications  Act, § 414, con-
trary to respondent's reading of it, does not dictate a differ-
ent result.  Section 414 copies the saving clause of the ICA,
and we have long held that the latter preserves  only those
rights that are not inconsistent with the statutory fied-tariff
requirements.  Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,2 26 U. S.
491, 507 (1913).  A claim for services that constitute unlaw-
ful preferences  or that directly conflict with the tariff-the
basis for both the tort and contract claims here-cannot be
"saved" under § 414.  "Th[e saving] clause...  cannot in rea-
son be construed as continuing in [customers] a common law
for our review ('Whether...  the Ninth Circuit improperly allowed state-
law contract and tort claims based on a common carrier's failure to honor
an alleged side agreement to give its customer better service than called
for by the carrier's tariff") nor was raised by respondent as an alternative
ground in support of the judgment.  Nor has respondent ever suggested
the need for a remand, even though the petition for certiorari sought not
merely reversal, but summary reversal.  In its brief on the merits, re-
spondent argued that the intentional tort claim was not pre-empted be-
cause AT&T's willful breach of its contractual commitments was not pro-
tected by the filed rate doctrine.  There was no hint of an argument that,
even if that willful breach could not form the basis for an action, other
alleged intentional acts sufficed to support the judgment below.  At no
point has respondent disputed the Magistrate Judge's finding that the tort
claim is derivative of the contract claim, or the Ninth Circuit's description
of its tort claim as based on the fact that "because  COT had promised
certain benefits  of SDN to its customers, and because AT&T provided
competing services, any violation of AT&T's contractual duties constituted
tortious interference with COT's relationship with its customers."  108
F. 3d 981, 988 (1997).  Contrary to the dissents assertion, we have no
obligation to search the record  for the existence  of a nonjurisdictional
point not presented, and to consider a disposition (remand instead of rever-
sal) not suggested by either side.

NEW PAGE

228  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE  TELEPHONE, INC.
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring
right, the continued existence of which would be absolutely
inconsistent with the provisions of the act.  In other words,
the act cannot be held to destroy itself."  Texas & Pacific R.
Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 446 (1907).
Finally, we reject respondent's argument that, even if the
tariff exclusively governs the parties' relationship, the relief
awarded  is  consistent  with  the  tariff, since  AT&T  Tariff
FCC No. 1, § 2.3.1 provides that petitioner's "liability, if any,
for its willful misconduct is not limited by this tariff."  Re-
spondent  reasons  that, because  the jury found  that peti-
tioner engaged in willful misconduct,  the verdict does not
conflict  with  the tariff.  Section 2.3.1,  however, cannot be
construed to do what the parties have no power to do.  It
removes only those limitations upon liability imposed by the
tariff,n ot those imposed by law.  It is the Communications
Act  that  renders  the  promise  of  preferences  unenforce-
able.  The tariff can  no more  exempt the broken promise
of preference  that is willful than it can the broken  prom-
ise of preference that is unintentional.  (In fact, perversely
enough,  the  willful breach  displays  a  greater,  if belated,
attempt to comply with the law.)
Because  respondent's  state-law claims are barred by the
fied rate doctrine,  we reverse  the judgment  of the Ninth
Circuit.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE  O'CONNOR  took no part in the consideration  or
decision of this case.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, concurring.
The Court concludes that respondent's  tortious interfer-
ence claim is "wholly derivative  of the contract claim"  and
therefore barred by the filed rate doctrine.  The Court ac-
cepts the Magistrate Judge's finding to that effect, ante, at
226, and I agree: The  acts of tortious interference  asserted

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring
against AT&T amount to no more than an intentional refusal
to provide  services  to respondent in an amount or manner
contrary to the filed tariff.
I write separately to note that this finding is necessary to
the conclusion that respondent's state-law tort claim may not
proceed.  As  the majority  correctly  states, the  filed  rate
doctrine  exists  to  protect  the  "antidiscriminatory  policy
which lies at 'the heart of the common-carrier  section of the
Communications Act."'  Ante, at 223.  Central to that anti-
discriminatory  policy  is  the notion  that all  purchasers  of
services covered by the tariff will pay the same rate.  The
filed  rate doctrine furthers this policy by disallowing  suits
brought to enforce agreements to provide services on terms
different from those listed in the tariff.  This ensures that
the tariff governs  the terms by which the common carrier
provides those services to its customers.
It is  crucial  to note, however,  that this is all  the tariff
governs.  In order  for the filed rate doctrine  to serve  its
purpose, therefore, it need pre-empt  only those  suits that
seek to alter the terms  and conditions  provided for in the
tariff.  This is how the doctrine has been applied in the past.
In Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155 (1912), for
example, respondent entered into a contract with petitioner
to ship horses  from Springfield, Illinois, to New York City
via a special fast train.  The tariff that the petitioner had
filed "did not provide for an expedited service, nor for trans-
portation by any particular train."  Id., at 163.  The Court
ruled that respondents  suit to enforce the special arrange-
ment could not proceed:
"An advantage accorded by special agreement which af-
fects the value of the service to the shipper and its cost
to the carrier should be published in the tariffs, and for
a breach of such a contract, relief will be denied, because
its allowance without such publication is a violation of
the act.  It is also illegal because it is an undue advan-

NEW PAGE

280  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL  OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring
tage in that it is not one open to all others in the same
situation."  Id., at 165.
In Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260 U. S. 156,
163 (1922), the question was not whether a separate contract
could be enforced, but rather whether petitioner could bring
an antitrust complaint challenging the rate that respondents
had filed in their tariff.  The Court ruled that he could not:
"The legal rights of shipper as against carrier in respect
to a rate are measured by the published tariff.  Unless
and until suspended or set aside, this rate is made, for all
purposes, the legal rate, as between carrier and shipper.
The rights as defined by the tariff cannot be varied or
enlarged  by  either  contract  or  tort  of  the  carrier."
Ibid. (emphasis added).
In this case respondent's  contract  claim seeks to enforce
side arrangements  that it  made with petitioner.  Respond-
ent  contends  that petitioner  promised  to  provide  it  with
services  on terms  different from those listed in the tariff.
As the above cases make clear, the filed rate doctrine bars
such a claim.  Respondents tort claim is entirely derivative
of its contractual claim, and the Court is therefore correct in
concluding that the doctrine also bars the tort claim.
The  tariff does not govern, however, the entirety of the
relationship between the common carrier and its customers.
For  example, it  does  not affect whatever  duties  state law
might impose on petitioner to refrain from intentionally in-
terfering with respondent's relationships with its customers
by  means  other  than  failing  to  honor  unenforceable  side
agreements, or to refrain from engaging in slander or libel,
or  to satisfy other  contractual  obligations.  The fied rate
doctrine's  purpose is to ensure that the filed rates are the
exclusive  source of the terms and  conditions by which the
common carrier provides to its customers the services cov-
ered by the tariff.  It  does not serve as a shield against all

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
actions  based in state law.  It is with  this understanding
that I join the Court's opinion.
JUSTICE STEVENS,  dissenting.
Everyone  agrees  that respondent's  tortious  interference
claim  would  be barred  by  the filed  rate  doctrine  if it is
"wholly derivative  of the contract  claim for additional  and
better services."  Ante, at 226 (majority opinion);  ante, at
228  (REHNQUIST,  C.  J.,  concurring).  Moreover,  it  is  true
that when the Magistrate Judge ruled that respondent's case
would not support a punitive damages award as a matter of
state  law, he  characterized  the tort claim  as  "stem[ming]
from the alleged failure of AT&T to comply with its contrac-
tual relationship."  Tr. 2207.  In my opinion, however, the
jury's verdict on respondent's tort claim is supported by evi-
dence that went well beyond,  and  differed in nature from,
the contract claim.
If petitioner, in an effort to appropriate respondent's cus-
tomers,  had  included with  each  bill  sent to  a  customer  a
statement expressly characterizing respondent as an unethi-
cal, profit-hungry middleman, I would think it clear that the
filed rate  doctrine  would not  constitute a defense  to  such
tortious conduct.  The evidence in the record indicates that
a similar result was obtained by mailing bills to the custom-
ers that disclosed the markup that respondent obtained  on
their calls.
Respondent's tort claim was also premised in part on testi-
mony that AT&T used a telemarketer to contact respondent's
customers and, without their authorization, convert them to
AT&T's own long-distance  service.  Id., at 557-558.  In re-
jecting  AT&T's  motion for  a directed  verdict  on  the tort
claim, the Magistrate recognized that this practice of "slam-
ming" customers could "easily be a case of intentional inter-
ference" that would not necessarily also constitute breach of
contract.  Id., at 2166-2167.  Slamming was clearly a part
of the case presented in the District Court.  There was an

NEW PAGE

232  AMERICAN TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH  CO.
v. CENTRAL  OFFICE TELEPHONE, INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
allegation of slamming in respondents amended complaint;'
in the District Court, AT&T's trial counsel took issue with
respondent's  effort  to make  slamming  "a big part of this
case,"  id., at 2170, and said in closing argument that slam-
ming "is the basis for  this intentional  interference"  claim,
id., at 2921;  and nothing in the jury instructions  remotely
suggested that the tort claim required proof of broken prom-
ises by AT&T to provide additional services.  Respondents
evidence easily fits within the definition of intentional inter-
ference set forth in the jury charge:
"COT asserts  that AT&T intentionally interfered  with
its business  relations  and  expectations  of future  busi-
ness relations  with its customers,  the end users  of its
SDN  service.  In order to prevail on this claim,  COT
must prove by a  preponderance  of the  evidence, one,
that COT had business relations with the probability of
future  economic  benefit.  Two,  that AT&T  was  aware
of the relationships  and expectation  of future benefits.
Three,  that AT&T intentionally interfered with  COT's
business relations.  Four, that AT&T interfered for an
improper  motive  or by using  improper means.  And,
five, that COT suffered  economic  injury as  a result of
the interference."  App. 71.
It may be the fact that the billing disclosures  and  slam-
ming were the consequence of negligence rather than a delib-
erate plan to take over a network of customers that respond-
ent  had  developed, but  the jury concluded  otherwise.  It
found that petitioner acted intentionally and willfully in in-
terfering  with  respondents  business  relations.  See ibid.2
That finding is doubly significant.
I" [D]espite repeated requests by COT to AT&T, AT&T failed to rectify
incidents of unauthorized changes made in the designated carriers ('slam-
ming') of COT's customers."  App. 28.
2 The jury's $13  million  damages  award,  reduced by the Magistrate
Judge to $1.154  million, did not differentiate between the contract and
tort claims.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)
STEVENS, J., dissenting
First, as the Court acknowledges,  ante, at 228, the jury's
finding precludes  a defense based on the provisions of the
tariff that purport to limit petitioner's liability.  Second, and
of greater importance, it determines that the most egregious
tortious conduct was  not merely derivative  of the contract
violations.  Enforcement  of respondent's state-law right to
be free  from tortious  interference  with  business  relations
does not somehow award respondent an unlawful preference
that should have been specified in the tariff (presumably in
return for an added fee or higher rate); it instead gives effect
to a generally applicable right that petitioner is required, by
state law, to respect in dealing with  all others, customers
and noncustomers alike.  Thus, at least some of the tortious
interference occurred independently  of the customer-carrier
relationship and would have been actionable even if respond-
ent had never entered into a contract with AT&T.
The Court correctly states that the filed rate doctrine will
pre-empt some tort claims, but we have never before applied
that harsh doctrine to bar relief for tortious conduct with so
little connection to, or effect upon, the relationship governed
by the tariff.  To the extent respondent's tort claim is based
on petitioner's billing disclosures and slamming practices, it
neither  challenges the carrier's filed rates, as did the anti-
trust claim in Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260
U. S.  156  (1922),  nor seeks a  special service  or privilege  of
the sort requested in cases such as Chicago & Alton R. Co.
v. Kirby, 225  U. S.  155  (1912),  and  Davis v. Cornwell, 264
U. S.  560 (1924).  More akin to this case is Nader v. Alle-
gheny Airlines, Inc., 426  U. S. 290, 300 (1976),  in which we
held that a common-law tort action for fraudulent misrepre-
sentation against a federally regulated air carrier could "co-
exist" with the Federal Aviation Act.  To a limited degree
it may be said that here, as in Nader, "any impact on rates
that may result from the imposition of tort liability or from
practices adopted by a carrier to avoid such liability would
be merely incidental."  Ibid.  If the Communications Act's

NEW PAGE

234  AMERICAN  TELEPHONE  & TELEGRAPH CO.
v. CENTRAL OFFICE TELEPHONE,  INC.
STEVENS, J., dissenting
saving clause 3 means anything, it preserves state-law reme-
dies against carriers on facts such as these.
The District Court and the Court of Appeals never consid-
ered whether respondent's tort claim is wholly derivative of
its contract  claim  for purposes  of the filed  rate  doctrine,
because those courts mistakenly believed that even the con-
tract claim was not covered by the doctrine.  On my own
reading of the record, I think it clear that a portion of the
tort claim is not pre-empted.  The Court should therefore
remand the case for a new trial rather than ordering judg-
ment outright for AT&T.4
Although  the Court holds broadly that respondent's  tort
claim is totally barred, it declines to consider whether a por-
tion of the claim might survive on remand because this issue
was  not part of the question presented in the petition for
certiorari  and  was  not  specifically  raised  by  respondent.
Ante, at 226-227, n. 2.  The latter point is wholly irrelevant,
precisely  because  of the scope  of the  question  presented.
The only question that we agreed to decide was whether the
filed rate  doctrine  pre-empts  "state-law contract  and  tort
claims  based  on  a  common  carrier's  failure  to  honor  an
alleged side agreement  to give its customer better service
than called for by the carrier's tariff."  Pet. for Cert. i.  The
Court  answers  that  legal  question,  and  then  decides  an
additional, factual  one:  whether respondent's tort claim  is
"based on" AT&T's "failure to honor an alleged side agree-
ment,"  and  thus is  "wholly  derivative"  of the  pre-empted
contract  claim.  In resolving that issue,  the Court cannot
3 "Nothing in this chapter contained shall in any way abridge or alter
the remedies now existing at common law or by statute, but the provisions
of this chapter are in addition to such remedies."  47 U. S. C. §414.
4 Beyond the billing disclosures and slamming, respondent asserts that
AT&T also misappropriated customer information from respondents con-
fidential data base.  Brief for Respondent 4.  That basis for a tort remedy,
if supported by sufficient evidence, would also appear not to be pre-empted
by the filed rate doctrine.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 524 U. S. 214 (1998)  235
STEVENS, J., dissenting
simply rely on AT&T's bald assertion, supported only by a
statement of the Magistrate taken  out of context, that the
tort  claim  is  "wholly  derivative";  we  have  an  obligation
either to study the record  or at least to remand  and  allow
the lower  courts to consider  the proper application  of the
legal rule to the facts of this case.
I respectfully dissent.

NEW PAGE