551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
264  OCTOBER TERM, 2006 
Syllabus 
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC, fka CREDIT 
SUISSE FIRST BOSTON LLC, et al. v. BILLING et al. 
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the second circuit 
No. 05–1157.  Argued March 27, 2007—Decided June 18, 2007 
Respondent investors ﬁled suit, alleging that petitioner investment banks, 
acting as underwriters, violated antitrust laws when they formed syn­
dicates  to  help  execute  initial  public  offerings  for  several  hundred 
technology-related companies.  Respondents claim that the underwrit­
ers unlawfully agreed that they would not sell newly issued securities 
to a buyer unless the buyer committed (1) to buy additional shares of 
that security later at escalating prices (known as “laddering”), (2) to 
pay unusually high commissions on subsequent security purchases from 
the underwriters, or (3) to purchase from the underwriters other less 
desirable securities (known as “tying”).  The underwriters moved to 
dismiss, claiming that federal securities law impliedly precludes applica­
tion of antitrust laws to the conduct in question.  The District Court 
dismissed the complaints, but the Second Circuit reversed. 
Held: The securities law implicitly precludes the application of the anti­
trust laws to the conduct alleged in this case.  Pp. 270–285. 
(a) Where regulatory statutes are silent in respect to antitrust, courts 
must determine whether, and in what respects, they implicitly preclude 
the antitrust laws’ application.  Taken together, Silver v.  New York 
Stock Exchange, 373 U. S. 341; Gordon v. New York Stock Exchange, 
Inc., 422 U. S. 659; and United States v. National Assn. of Securities 
Dealers, Inc., 422 U. S. 694 (NASD), make clear that a court deciding 
this preclusion issue is deciding whether, given context and likely conse­
quences, there is a “clear repugnancy” between the securities law and 
the antitrust complaint, i. e., whether the two are “clearly incompatible.” 
Moreover, Gordon and NASD, in ﬁnding sufﬁcient incompatibility to 
warrant an implication of preclusion, treated as critical: (1) the existence 
of regulatory authority under the securities law to supervise the activi­
ties in question; (2) evidence that the responsible regulatory entities 
exercise that authority; and (3) a resulting risk that the securities and 
antitrust laws, if both applicable, would produce conﬂicting guidance, 
requirements, duties, privileges, or standards of conduct.  In addition, 
(4) in Gordon and NASD the possible conﬂict affected practices that lie 
squarely within an area of ﬁnancial market activity that securities law 
seeks to regulate.  Pp. 270–276. 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  265 
Syllabus 
(b) Several considerations—the underwriters’ efforts jointly to pro­
mote and sell newly issued securities is central to the proper functioning 
of well-regulated capital markets; the law grants the Securities and Ex­
change Commission (SEC) authority to supervise such activities; and 
the SEC has continuously exercised its legal authority to regulate this 
type of conduct—show that the ﬁrst, second, and fourth conditions are 
satisﬁed in this case.  This leaves the third condition: whether there is 
a conﬂict rising to the level of incompatibility.  Pp. 276–277. 
(c) The complaints here can be read as attacking the manner in which 
the underwriters jointly seek to collect “excessive” commissions 
through the practices of laddering, tying, and collecting excessive com­
missions, which according to respondents the SEC itself has already 
disapproved and, in all likelihood, will not approve in the foreseeable 
future.  Nonetheless, certain considerations, taken together, lead to the 
conclusion that securities law and antitrust law are clearly incompatible 
in this context.  Pp. 278–285. 
(1) First, to permit antitrust actions such as this threatens serious 
securities-related harm.  For one thing, a ﬁne, complex, detailed line 
separates activity that the SEC permits or encourages from activity 
that it forbids.  And the SEC has the expertise to distinguish what 
is forbidden from what is allowed.  For another thing, reasonable but 
contradictory inferences may be drawn from overlapping evidence that 
shows both unlawful antitrust activity and lawful securities marketing 
activity.  Further, there is a serious risk that antitrust courts, with 
different nonexpert judges and different nonexpert juries, will produce 
inconsistent results.  Together these factors mean there is no practical 
way to conﬁne antitrust suits so that they challenge only the kind of 
activity the investors seek to target, which is presently unlawful and 
will likely remain unlawful under the securities law.  Rather, these con­
siderations suggest that antitrust courts are likely to make unusually 
serious mistakes in this respect.  And that threat means that under­
writers must act to avoid not simply conduct that the securities law 
forbids, but also joint conduct that the securities law permits or encour­
ages.  Thus, allowing an antitrust lawsuit would threaten serious harm 
to the efﬁcient functioning of the securities market.  Pp. 279–283. 
(2) Second, any enforcement-related need for an antitrust lawsuit 
is unusually small.  For one thing, the SEC actively enforces the rules 
and regulations that forbid the conduct in question.  For another, inves­
tors harmed by underwriters’ unlawful practices may sue and obtain 
damages under the securities law.  Finally, the fact that the SEC is 
itself required to take account of competitive considerations when it cre­
ates securities-related policy and embodies it in rules and regulations 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
266  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Syllabus 
makes it somewhat less necessary to rely on antitrust actions to address 
anticompetitive behavior.  Pp. 283–284. 
(3) In sum, an antitrust action in this context is accompanied by a 
substantial risk of injury to the securities markets and by a diminished 
need for antitrust enforcement to address anticompetitive conduct.  To­
gether these considerations indicate a serious conﬂict between applica­
tion of the antitrust laws and proper enforcement of the securities law. 
The Solicitor General’s proposal to avoid this conﬂict does not convinc­
ingly address these concerns.  Pp. 284–285. 
426 F. 3d 130, reversed. 
Breyer, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., 
and Scalia, Souter, Ginsburg, and Alito, JJ., joined.  Stevens, J., 
ﬁled an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 285.  Thomas, J., 
ﬁled a dissenting opinion, post, p. 287.  Kennedy, J., took no part in the 
consideration or decision of the case. 
Stephen M. Shapiro argued the cause for petitioners. 
With him on the briefs were Kenneth S. Geller, Timothy S. 
Bishop, John P. Schmitz, Robert B. McCaw, Louis R. Cohen, 
Ali M. Stoeppelwerth, Noah A. Levine, Andrew J. Frack­
man, Timothy J. Muris, Richard G. Parker, Carter G. Phil­
lips,  A.  Robert  Pietrzak,  Andrew  B.  Clubok,  Brant  W. 
Bishop, Bradley J. Bondi, Shepard Goldfein, Preeta D. Ban­
sal, Richard A. Cirillo, Moses Silverman, Jon R. Roellke, 
Jeffrey H. Drichta, Paul Gonson, Glenn R. Reichardt, Gan­
dolfo V. DiBlasi, Penny Shane, David M. J. Rein, Randy M. 
Mastro, John A. Herfort, Steven Wolowitz, Gerald J. Fields, 
David W. Ichel, Jayma M. Meyer, John D. Donovan, Jr., and 
Robert G. Jones. 
Solicitor General Clement argued the cause for the 
United  States  as  amicus  curiae.  With  him  on  the  brief 
were Assistant Attorney General Barnett, Deputy Solici­
tor  General  Hungar,  Deputy  Assistant  Attorney  General 
Meyer, Douglas Hallward-Driemeier, Catherine G. O’Sulli­
van, Nancy C. Garrison, and Richard M. Humes. 
Christopher  Lovell  argued  the  cause  for  respondents. 
With him on the brief for respondent Billing et al. were Gary 
S. Jacobson, Melvyn I. Weiss, Howard B. Sirota, Fred Tay­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  267 
Opinion of the Court 
lor Isquith, J. Douglas Richards, Einer Elhauge, and Jona­
than R. Macey.  Russel H. Beatie ﬁled a brief for respond­
ent Pfeiffer.* 
Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court. 
A group of buyers of newly issued securities have ﬁled an 
antitrust lawsuit against underwriting ﬁrms that market and 
distribute those issues.  The buyers claim that the under­
writers unlawfully agreed with one another that they would 
not sell shares of a popular new issue to a buyer unless that 
buyer committed (1) to buy additional shares of that security 
later  at  escalating  prices  (a  practice  called  “laddering”), 
(2) to pay unusually high commissions on subsequent secu­
rity  purchases  from  the  underwriters,  or  (3)  to  purchase 
from the underwriters other less desirable securities (a prac­
tice  called  “tying”).  The  question  before  us  is  whether 
there  is  a  “ ‘plain  repugnancy’ ”  between  these  antitrust 
claims and the federal securities law.  See Gordon v.  New 
York Stock Exchange, Inc., 422 U. S. 659, 682 (1975) (quoting 
United States v. Philadelphia Nat. Bank, 374 U. S. 321, 350– 
351 (1963)).  We conclude that there is.  Consequently we 
must interpret the securities laws as implicitly precluding 
the application of the antitrust laws to the conduct alleged 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the National Asso­
ciation of Securities Dealers, Inc., by Theodore B. Olson, F. Joseph Warin, 
Douglas R. Cox, and Amir C. Tayrani; for NYSE Group, Inc., by Jay N. 
Fastow; for the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
et al. by Roy T. Englert, Jr., Gary A. Orseck, Robin S. Conrad, Amar D. 
Sarwal, and Robert H. Bork; for the Washington Legal Foundation by 
James A. Meyers, Garret G. Rasmussen, Daniel J. Popeo, and Richard A. 
Samp; and for W. R. Hambrecht + Co., LLC, by Paul Michael Kaplan. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the State of New 
York by Andrew M. Cuomo, Attorney General, Barbara D. Underwood, 
Solicitor General, Daniel Smirlock, Deputy Solicitor General, Andrew D. 
Bing, Assistant Solicitor General, Richard E. Grimm, and Sarah M. Hub­
bard, Assistant Attorney General; and for the American Antitrust Insti­
tute by Joseph Goldberg and Daniel E. Gustafson. 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
268  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
in this case.  See 422 U. S., at 682, 689, 691; see also United 
States v. National Assn. of Securities Dealers, Inc., 422 U. S. 
694 (1975) (NASD); Silver v. New York Stock Exchange, 373 
U. S. 341 (1963). 
I
 
A
 
The underwriting practices at issue take place during the 
course of an initial public offering (IPO) of shares in a com­
pany.  An IPO presents an opportunity to raise capital for a 
new enterprise by selling shares to the investing public.  A 
group of underwriters will typically form a syndicate to help 
market the shares.  The syndicate will investigate and esti­
mate likely market demand for the shares at various prices. 
It will then recommend to the ﬁrm a price and the number 
of shares it believes the ﬁrm should offer.  Ultimately, the 
syndicate will promise to buy from the ﬁrm all the newly 
issued  shares  on  a  speciﬁed  date  at  a  ﬁxed,  agreed-upon 
price, which price the syndicate will then charge investors 
when it resells the shares.  When the syndicate buys the 
shares from the issuing ﬁrm, however, the ﬁrm gives the 
syndicate a price discount, which amounts to the syndicate’s 
commission.  See generally L. Loss & J. Seligman, Funda­
mentals of Securities Regulation 66–72 (4th ed. 2001). 
At the heart of the syndicate’s IPO marketing activity lie 
its efforts to determine suitable initial share prices and quan­
tities.  At ﬁrst, the syndicate makes a preliminary estimate 
that it submits in a registration statement to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC).  It then conducts a “road 
show” during which syndicate underwriters and representa­
tives of the offering ﬁrm meet potential investors and engage 
in a process that the industry calls “bookbuilding.”  During 
this time, the underwriters and ﬁrm representatives present 
information to investors about the company and the stock. 
And they attempt to gauge the strength of the investors’ 
interest in purchasing the stock.  For this purpose, under­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  269 
Opinion of the Court 
writers  might  well  ask  the  investors  how  their  interest 
would vary depending upon price and the number of shares 
that  are  offered.  They  will  learn,  among  other  things, 
which  investors  might  buy  shares,  in  what  quantities,  at 
what prices, and for how long each is likely to hold purchased 
shares before selling them to others. 
On the basis of this kind of information, the members of 
the  underwriting  syndicate  work  out  ﬁnal  arrangements 
with the issuing ﬁrm, ﬁxing the price per share and specify­
ing the number of shares for which the underwriters will be 
jointly  responsible.  As  we  have  said,  after  buying  the 
shares at a discounted price, the syndicate resells the shares 
to investors at the ﬁxed price, in effect earning its commis­
sion in the process. 
B 
In January 2002, respondents, a group of 60 investors, ﬁled 
two  antitrust  class-action  lawsuits  against  petitioners,  10 
leading investment banks.  They sought relief under § 1 of 
the  Sherman  Act,  ch.  647,  26  Stat.  209,  as  amended,  15 
U. S. C. § 1; § 2(c) of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 730, as amended 
by  the  Robinson-Patman  Act,  49  Stat.  1527,  15  U. S. C. 
§ 13(c); and state antitrust laws.  App. 1, 14.  The investors 
stated  that  between  March  1997  and  December  2000  the 
banks had acted as underwriters, forming syndicates that 
helped  execute  the  IPOs  of  several  hundred  technology­
related companies.  Id., at 22.  Respondents’ antitrust com­
plaints allege that the underwriters “abused the . . . practice 
of  combining  into  underwriting  syndicates”  by  agreeing 
among themselves to impose harmful conditions upon poten­
tial investors—conditions that the investors apparently were 
willing  to accept  in  order  to  obtain  an  allocation  of  new 
shares that were in high demand.  Id., at 12. 
These conditions, according to respondents, consist of a re­
quirement that the investors pay “additional anticompetitive 
charges” over and above the agreed-upon IPO share price 
plus  underwriting  commission.  In  particular,  these  addi­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
270  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
tional charges  took the form  of (1) investor  promises “to 
place bids . . . in the aftermarket at prices above the IPO 
price” (i. e., “laddering” agreements); (2) investor “commit­
ments  to  purchase  other,  less  attractive  securities”  (i. e., 
“tying” arrangements); and (3) investor payment of “non­
competitively  determined”  (i. e.,  excessive)  “commissions,” 
including the “purchas[e] of an issuer’s shares in follow-up or 
‘secondary’  public  offerings  (for  which  the  underwriters 
would earn underwriting discounts).”  Id., at 12–13.  The 
complaint added that the underwriters’ agreement to engage 
in some or all of these practices artiﬁcially inﬂated the share 
prices of the securities in question.  Id., at 32. 
The underwriters moved to dismiss the investors’ com­
plaints on the ground that federal securities law impliedly 
precludes  application  of  antitrust  laws  to  the  conduct  in 
question.  (The antitrust laws at issue include the commer­
cial bribery provisions of the Robinson-Patman Act.)  The 
District  Court  agreed  with  petitioners  and  dismissed  the 
complaints against them.  See In re Initial Public Offering 
Antitrust Litigation, 287 F. Supp. 2d 497, 524–525 (SDNY 
2003) (IPO Antitrust).  The Court of Appeals for the Sec­
ond  Circuit  reversed,  however,  and  reinstated  the  com­
plaints.  426 F. 3d 130, 170, 172 (2005).  We granted the un­
derwriters’ petition for certiorari.  And we now reverse the 
judgment of the Court of Appeals. 
II 
A 
Sometimes  regulatory  statutes  explicitly  state  whether 
they preclude application of the antitrust laws.  Compare, 
e. g., Webb-Pomerene Act, 15 U. S. C. § 62 (expressly provid­
ing antitrust immunity), with § 601(b)(1) of the Telecommuni­
cations Act of 1996, 47 U. S. C. § 152 (stating that antitrust 
laws remain applicable).  See also Verizon Communications 
Inc. v. Law Ofﬁces of Curtis V. Trinko, LLP, 540 U. S. 398, 
406–407 (2004) (analyzing the antitrust saving clause of the 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  271 
Opinion of the Court 
Telecommunications  Act).  Where  regulatory  statutes  are 
silent in respect to antitrust, however, courts must deter­
mine whether, and in what respects, they implicitly preclude 
application of the antitrust laws.  Those determinations may 
vary from statute to statute, depending upon the relation 
between the antitrust laws and the regulatory program set 
forth in the particular statute, and the relation of the speciﬁc 
conduct at issue to both sets of laws.  Compare Gordon, 422 
U. S., at 689 (ﬁnding implied preclusion of antitrust laws); 
and  NASD,  422  U. S.,  at  729–730  (same),  with  Otter  Tail 
Power  Co.  v.  United States, 410 U. S. 366, 374–375 (1973) 
(ﬁnding no implied immunity); Philadelphia Nat. Bank, 374 
U. S., at 352 (same); and Silver, 373 U. S., at 360 (same).  See 
also Phonetele, Inc. v. American Tel. & Tel. Co., 664 F. 2d 
716, 727 (CA9 1981). 
Three decisions from this Court speciﬁcally address the 
relation  of  securities  law  to  antitrust  law.  In  Silver  the 
Court considered a dealer’s claim that, by expelling him from 
the New York Stock Exchange, the exchange had violated 
the  antitrust  prohibition  against  group  “boycott[s].”  373 
U. S., at 347.  The Court wrote that, where possible, courts 
should “reconcil[e] the operation of both [i. e., antitrust and 
securities] statutory schemes . . . rather than holding one 
completely ousted.”  Id., at 357.  It also set forth a stand­
ard, namely, that “[r]epeal [of the antitrust laws] is to be re­
garded as implied only if necessary to make the Securities 
Exchange Act work, and even then only to the minimum ex­
tent necessary.”  Ibid.  And it held that the securities law 
did  not  preclude  application  of  the  antitrust  laws  to  the 
claimed boycott insofar as the exchange denied the expelled 
dealer a right to fair procedures.  Id., at 359–360. 
In reaching this conclusion, the Court noted that the SEC 
lacked jurisdiction under the securities law “to review par­
ticular  instances  of  enforcement  of  exchange  rules”;  that 
“nothing [was] built into the regulatory scheme which per­
forms the antitrust function of insuring” that rules that in­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
272  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
jure competition are nonetheless “justiﬁed as furthering” le­
gitimate regulatory “ends”; that the expulsion “would 
clearly” violate “the Sherman Act unless justiﬁed by refer­
ence to the purposes of the Securities Exchange Act”; and 
that it could ﬁnd no such justifying purpose where the ex­
change took “anticompetitive collective action . . .  without 
according fair procedures.”  Id., at 357–358, 364 (emphasis 
added). 
In Gordon  the Court considered an  antitrust complaint 
that essentially alleged “price ﬁxing” among stockbrokers. 
It charged that members of the New York Stock Exchange 
had agreed to ﬁx their commissions on sales under $500,000. 
And it sought damages and an injunction forbidding future 
agreements.  422 U. S., at 661, and n. 3.  The lawsuit was 
ﬁled at a time when regulatory attitudes toward ﬁxed stock­
broker commissions were changing.  The ﬁxed commissions 
challenged in the complaint were applied during a period 
when the SEC approved of the practice of ﬁxing broker­
commission rates.  But Congress and the SEC had both sub­
sequently disapproved for the future the ﬁxing of some of 
those rates.  See id., at 690–691. 
In deciding whether antitrust liability could lie, the Court 
repeated  Silver’s  general  standard  in  somewhat  different 
terms: It said that an “implied repeal” of the antitrust laws 
would be found only “where there is a ‘plain repugnancy be­
tween the antitrust and regulatory provisions.’ ”  422 U. S., 
at 682 (quoting Philadelphia Nat. Bank, supra, at 350–351). 
It then held that the securities laws impliedly precluded ap­
plication  of  the  antitrust  laws  in  the  case  at  hand.  The 
Court rested this conclusion on three sets of considerations. 
For one thing, the securities law “gave the SEC direct regu­
latory power over exchange rules and practices with respect 
to the ﬁxing of reasonable rates of commission.”  422 U. S., 
at 685 (internal quotation marks omitted).  For another, the 
SEC had “taken an active role in review of proposed rate 
changes during the last 15 years,” and had engaged in “con­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  273 
Opinion of the Court 
tinuing activity” in respect to the regulation of commission 
rates.  Ibid.  Finally, without antitrust immunity, “the ex­
changes and their members” would be subject to “conﬂicting 
standards.”  Id., at 689. 
This last consideration—the conﬂict—was complicated due 
to Congress’, and the agency’s, changing views about the va­
lidity of ﬁxed commissions.  As far as the past ﬁxing of rates 
was concerned, the conﬂict was clear: The antitrust law had 
forbidden the very thing that the securities law had then 
permitted,  namely, an  anticompetitive ratesetting  process. 
In respect to the future, however, the conﬂict was less appar­
ent.  That was because the SEC’s new (congressionally au­
thorized) prohibition of (certain) ﬁxed rates would take effect 
in the near-term future.  And after that time the SEC and 
the  antitrust  law  would  both  likely  prohibit  some  of  the 
rateﬁxing  to  which  the  plaintiff’s  injunction  would  likely 
apply.  See id., at 690–691. 
Despite the likely compatibility of the laws in the future, 
the Court nonetheless expressly found conﬂict.  The conﬂict 
arose from the fact that the law permitted the SEC to super­
vise the competitive setting of rates and to “reintroduc[e] 
. . . ﬁxed rates,” id., at 691 (emphasis added), under certain 
conditions.  The Court consequently wrote that “failure to 
imply repeal would render nugatory the legislative provision 
for regulatory agency supervision of exchange commission 
rates.”  Ibid.  The upshot is that, in light of potential future 
conﬂict, the Court found that the securities law precluded 
antitrust liability even in respect to a practice that both anti­
trust law and securities law might forbid. 
In NASD the Court considered a Department of Justice 
antitrust complaint claiming that mutual fund companies had 
agreed  with  securities  broker-dealers  (1)  to  ﬁx  “resale” 
prices, i. e., the prices at which a broker-dealer would sell a 
mutual  fund’s  shares  to  an  investor  or  buy  mutual  fund 
shares  from  a  fund  investor  (who  wished  to  redeem  the 
shares); (2) to ﬁx other terms of sale including those related 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
274  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
to when, how, to whom, and from whom the broker-dealers 
might sell and buy mutual fund shares; and (3) to prohibit 
broker-dealers  from  freely  selling  to,  and  buying  shares 
from, one another.  See 422 U. S., at 700–703. 
The Court again found “clear repugnancy,” and it held that 
the securities law, by implication, precluded all parts of the 
antitrust  claim.  Id.,  at  719.  In reaching  this  conclusion, 
the Court found that antitrust law (e. g., forbidding resale 
price maintenance) and securities law (e. g., permitting resale 
price maintenance) were in conﬂict.  In deciding that the 
latter trumped the former, the Court relied upon the same 
kinds of considerations it found determinative in Gordon. 
In respect to the last set of allegations (restricting a free 
market in mutual fund shares among brokers), the Court said 
that (1) the relevant securities law “enables [the SEC] to 
monitor the activities questioned”; (2) “the history of Com­
mission regulations suggests no laxity in the exercise of this 
authority”; and hence (3) allowing an antitrust suit to pro­
ceed that is “so directly related to the SEC’s responsibilities” 
would present “a substantial danger that [broker-dealers and 
other defendants] would be subjected to duplicative and in­
consistent standards.”  NASD, 422 U. S., at 734–735. 
As to the other practices alleged in the complaint (concern­
ing, e. g., resale price maintenance), the Court emphasized 
that (1) the securities law “vested in the SEC ﬁnal authority 
to determine whether and to what extent” the relevant prac­
tices “should be tolerated,” id., at 729; (2) although the SEC 
has not actively supervised the relevant practices, that is 
only because the statute “reﬂects a clear congressional de­
termination that, subject to Commission oversight, mutual 
funds should be allowed to retain the initiative in dealing 
with  the  potentially  adverse  effects  of  disruptive  trading 
practices,” id., at 727; and (3) the SEC has supervised the 
funds insofar as its “acceptance of fund-initiated restrictions 
for more than three decades . . . manifests an informed ad­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  275 
Opinion of the Court 
ministrative judgment that the contractual restrictions . . . 
were appropriate means for combating the problems of the 
industry,” id., at 728.  The Court added that, in these re­
spects, the SEC had engaged in “precisely the kind of admin­
istrative oversight of private practices that Congress con­
templated.”  Ibid. 
As an initial matter these cases make clear that Justice 
Thomas is wrong to regard §§ 77p(a) and 78bb(a) as saving 
clauses so broad as to preserve all antitrust actions.  See 
post,  p.  287  (dissenting  opinion).  The  United  States  ad­
vanced the same argument in Gordon.  See Brief for United 
States as Amicus Curiae in Gordon v. New York Stock Ex­
change,  Inc.,  O.  T.  1974,  No.  74–304,  pp.  8,  42.  And  the 
Court, in ﬁnding immunity, necessarily rejected it.  See also 
NASD, supra, at 694 (same holding); Herman & MacLean v. 
Huddleston, 459 U. S. 375, 383 (1983) (ﬁnding saving clause 
applicable  to  overlap  between  securities  laws  where  that 
“overlap  [was]  neither  unusual  nor  unfortunate”  (internal 
quotation marks omitted)).  Although one party has made 
the  argument  in  this  Court,  it  was  not  presented  in  the 
courts below.  And we shall not reexamine it. 
This Court’s prior decisions also make clear that, when a 
court decides whether securities law precludes antitrust law, 
it is deciding whether, given context and likely consequences, 
there is a “clear repugnancy” between the securities law and 
the  antitrust  complaint—or  as  we  shall  subsequently  de­
scribe the matter, whether the two are “clearly incompati­
ble.”  Moreover, Gordon and NASD, in ﬁnding sufﬁcient in­
compatibility to warrant an implication of preclusion, have 
treated the following factors as critical: (1) the existence of 
regulatory authority under the securities law to supervise 
the activities in question; (2) evidence that the responsible 
regulatory entities exercise that authority; and (3) a result­
ing risk that the securities and antitrust laws, if both ap­
plicable, would produce conﬂicting guidance, requirements, 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
276  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
duties, privileges, or standards of conduct.  We also note 
(4) that in Gordon and NASD the possible conﬂict affected 
practices that lie squarely within an area of ﬁnancial market 
activity that the securities law seeks to regulate. 
B 
These principles, applied to the complaints before us, con­
siderably  narrow  our  legal  task.  For  the  parties  cannot 
reasonably dispute the existence here of several of the con­
ditions  that  this  Court  previously  regarded  as  crucial  to 
ﬁnding that the securities law impliedly precludes the appli­
cation of the antitrust laws. 
First, the activities in question here—the underwriters’ 
efforts jointly to promote and to sell newly issued securi­
ties—is central to the proper functioning of well-regulated 
capital markets.  The IPO process supports new ﬁrms that 
seek to raise capital; it helps to spread ownership of those 
ﬁrms  broadly  among  investors;  it  directs  capital  ﬂows  in 
ways that better correspond to the public’s demand for goods 
and  services.  Moreover,  ﬁnancial  experts,  including  the 
securities regulators, consider the general kind of joint un­
derwriting activity at issue in this case, including road shows 
and bookbuilding efforts essential to the successful market­
ing of an IPO.  See Memorandum Amicus Curiae of SEC in 
IPO  Antitrust,  Case  No.  01  CIV  2014  (WHP)  (SDNY), 
pp. 15, 39–40, App. D to Pet. for Cert. 124a, 138a, 155a–157a 
(hereinafter Brief for SEC).  Thus, the antitrust complaints 
before us concern practices that lie at the very heart of the 
securities marketing enterprise. 
Second, the law grants the SEC authority to supervise all 
of  the  activities  here  in  question.  Indeed,  the  SEC  pos­
sesses considerable power to forbid, permit, encourage, dis­
courage,  tolerate,  limit,  and  otherwise  regulate  virtually 
every aspect of the practices in which underwriters engage. 
See, e. g., 15 U. S. C. §§ 77b(a)(3), 77j, 77z–2 (granting SEC 
power to regulate the process of bookbuilding, solicitations 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  277 
Opinion of the Court 
of “indications of interest,” and communications between un­
derwriting participants and their customers, including those 
that occur during road shows); § 78o(c)(2)(D) (granting SEC 
power to deﬁne and prevent through rules and regulations 
acts and practices that are fraudulent, deceptive, or manipu­
lative); § 78i(a)(6) (similar); § 78j(b) (similar).  Private indi­
viduals who suffer harm as a result of a violation of pertinent 
statutes  and  regulations  may  also  recover  damages.  See 
§§ 78bb, 78u–4, 77k. 
Third, the SEC has continuously exercised its legal author­
ity to regulate conduct of the general kind now at issue.  It 
has deﬁned in detail, for example, what underwriters may 
and may not do and say during their road shows.  Compare, 
e. g., Guidance Regarding Prohibited Conduct in Connection 
with IPO Allocations, 70 Fed. Reg. 19672 (2005), with Regu­
lation M, 17 CFR §§ 242.100–242.105 (2006).  It has brought 
actions against underwriters who have violated these SEC 
regulations.  See Brief for SEC 13–14, App. D to Pet. for 
Cert. 136a–138a.  And private litigants, too, have brought 
securities actions complaining of conduct virtually identical 
to the conduct at issue here; and they have obtained dam­
ages.  See, e. g., In re Initial Pub. Offering Securities Liti­
gation, 241 F. Supp. 2d 281 (SDNY 2003). 
The preceding considerations show that the ﬁrst condition 
(legal regulatory authority), the second condition (exercise 
of that authority), and the fourth condition (heartland securi­
ties activity) that were present in Gordon and NASD are 
satisﬁed in this case as well.  Unlike Silver, there is here no 
question of the existence of appropriate regulatory authority, 
nor is there doubt as to whether the regulators have exer­
cised that authority.  Rather, the question before us con­
cerns the third condition: Is there a conﬂict that rises to the 
level of incompatibility?  Is an antitrust suit such as this 
likely to prove practically incompatible with the SEC’s ad­
ministration of the Nation’s securities laws? 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
278  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
III 
A 
Given the SEC’s comprehensive authority to regulate IPO 
underwriting syndicates, its active and ongoing exercise of 
that authority, and the undisputed need for joint IPO under­
writer activity, we do not read the complaints as attacking 
the bare existence of IPO underwriting syndicates or any of 
the joint activity that the SEC considers a necessary compo­
nent of IPO-related syndicate activity.  See Brief for SEC 
15, 39–40, App. D to Pet. for Cert. 138a, 155a–157a.  See also 
IPO Antitrust, 287 F. Supp. 2d, at 507 (discussing the history 
of syndicate marketing of IPOs); App. 12 (complaint attacks 
underwriters “abus[e]” of “the preexisting practice of com­
bining  into  underwriting  syndicates”  (emphasis  added)); 
H. R. Rep. No. 1383, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 6–7 (1934); S. Rep. 
No. 792, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., 5 (1934) (law must give to secu­
rities agencies freedom to regulate agreements among syndi­
cate members).  Nor do we understand the complaints as 
questioning underwriter agreements to ﬁx the levels of their 
commissions, whether or not the resulting price is “exces­
sive.”  See Gordon, 422 U. S., at 688–689 (securities law con­
ﬂicts with, and therefore precludes, antitrust attack on the 
ﬁxing of commissions where the SEC has not approved, but 
later might approve, the practice). 
We nonetheless can read the complaints as attacking the 
manner in which the underwriters jointly seek to collect “ex­
cessive” commissions.  The complaints attack underwriter 
efforts to collect commissions through certain practices (i. e., 
laddering,  tying,  collecting  excessive  commissions  in  the 
form of later sales of the issued shares), which according to 
respondents the SEC itself has already disapproved and, in 
all likelihood, will not approve in the foreseeable future.  In 
respect to this set of claims, they contend that there is no 
possible “conﬂict” since both securities law and antitrust law 
aim to prohibit the same undesirable activity.  Without a 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  279 
Opinion of the Court 
conﬂict, they add, there is no “repugnance” or “incompatibil­
ity,” and this Court may not imply that securities law pre­
cludes an antitrust suit. 
B 
We accept the premises of respondents’ argument—that 
the SEC has full regulatory authority over these practices, 
that it has actively exercised that authority, but that the 
SEC has disapproved (and, for argument’s sake, we assume 
that it will continue to disapprove) the conduct that the anti­
trust complaints attack.  Nonetheless, we cannot accept re­
spondents’ conclusion.  Rather, several considerations taken 
together lead us to ﬁnd that, even on these prorespondent 
assumptions,  securities  law  and  antitrust  law  are  clearly 
incompatible. 
First, to permit antitrust actions such as the present one 
still  threatens  serious  securities-related  harm.  For  one 
thing, an unusually serious legal line-drawing problem re­
mains unabated.  In the present context only a ﬁne, com­
plex, detailed line separates activity that the SEC permits 
or encourages (for which respondents must concede antitrust 
immunity) from activity that the SEC must (and inevitably 
will) forbid (and which, on respondents’ theory, should be 
open to antitrust attack). 
For example, in respect to “laddering” the SEC forbids an 
underwriter to “[s]olici[t] customers prior to the completion 
of the distribution regarding whether and at what price and 
in what quantity they intend to place immediate aftermarket 
orders for IPO stock,” 70 Fed. Reg. 19675–19676 (emphasis 
deleted); 17 CFR §§ 242.100–242.105.  But at the same time 
the SEC permits, indeed encourages, underwriters (as part 
of the “bookbuilding” process) to “inquir[e] as to a customer’s 
desired future position in the longer term (for example, three 
to six months), and the price or prices at which the customer 
might accumulate that position without reference to immedi­
ate aftermarket activity.”  70 Fed. Reg. 19676. 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
280  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
It will often be difﬁcult for someone who is not familiar 
with accepted syndicate practices to determine with conﬁ­
dence whether an underwriter has insisted that an investor 
buy more shares in the immediate aftermarket (forbidden), 
or has simply allocated more shares to an investor willing 
to purchase additional shares of that issue in the long run 
(permitted).  And  who  but  a  securities  expert  could  say 
whether the present SEC rules set forth a virtually perma­
nent line, unlikely to change in ways that would permit the 
sorts of “laddering-like” conduct that it now seems to forbid? 
Cf. Gordon, supra, at 690–691. 
Similarly, in respect to “tying” and other efforts to obtain 
an  increased  commission  from  future  sales,  the  SEC  has 
sought to prohibit an underwriter “from demanding . . . an 
offer from [its] customers of any payment or other consider­
ation [such as the purchase of a different security] in addition 
to the security’s stated consideration.”  69 Fed. Reg. 75785 
(2004).  But the SEC would permit a ﬁrm to “allocat[e] IPO 
shares to a customer because the customer has separately 
retained the ﬁrm for other services, when the customer has 
not paid excessive compensation in relation to those serv­
ices.”  Ibid., and n. 108.  The National Association of Secu­
rities Dealers (NASD), over which the SEC exercises super­
visory authority, has also proposed a rule that would prohibit 
a member underwriter from “offering or threatening to with­
hold” IPO shares “as consideration or inducement for the 
receipt of compensation that is excessive in relation to the 
services provided.”  Id., at 77810.  The NASD would allow, 
however, a customer legitimately to compete for IPO shares 
by increasing the level and quantity of compensation it pays 
to the underwriter.  See ibid. (describing NASD Proposed 
Rule 2712(a)). 
Under these standards, to distinguish what is forbidden 
from what is allowed requires an understanding of just when, 
in relation to services provided, a commission is “excessive,” 
indeed, so “excessive” that it will remain permanently for­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  281 
Opinion of the Court 
bidden, see Gordon, 422 U. S., at 690–691.  And who but the 
SEC itself could do so with conﬁdence? 
For another thing, evidence tending to show unlawful anti­
trust activity and evidence tending to show lawful securities 
marketing activity may overlap, or prove identical.  Con­
sider, for instance, a conversation between an underwriter 
and an investor about how long an investor intends to hold 
the new shares (and at what price), say, a conversation that 
elicits comments concerning both the investor’s short and 
longer term plans.  That exchange might, as a plaintiff sees 
it, provide evidence of an underwriter’s insistence upon “lad­
dering”  or,  as  a  defendant  sees  it,  provide  evidence  of  a 
lawful effort to allocate shares to those who will hold them 
for a longer time.  See Brief for United States as Amicus 
Curiae 27. 
Similarly, the same somewhat ambiguous conversation 
might help to establish an effort to collect an unlawfully high 
commission  through  atypically  high  commissions  on  later 
sales or through the sales of less popular stocks.  Or it might 
prove  only  that  the  underwriter  allocates  more  popular 
shares to investors who will help stabilize the aftermarket 
share price.  See, e. g., Department of Enforcement v.  Re­
spondent, Disciplinary Proc. No. CAF030014 (NASD Hear­
ing Panel, Mar. 3, 2006), pp. 12–13 (redacted decision), called 
for review, Complaint No. CAF030014 (NASD Nat. Adjudica­
tory Council, Apr. 11, 2006). 
Further, antitrust plaintiffs may bring lawsuits through­
out the Nation in dozens of different courts with different 
nonexpert judges and different nonexpert juries.  In light 
of the nuanced nature of the evidentiary evaluations neces­
sary to separate the permissible from the impermissible, it 
will prove difﬁcult for those many different courts to reach 
consistent  results.  And,  given  the  fact-related  nature  of 
many such evaluations, it will also prove difﬁcult to ensure 
that the different courts evaluate similar fact patterns con­
sistently.  The result is an unusually high risk that different 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
282  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
courts will evaluate similar factual circumstances differently. 
See Hovenkamp, Antitrust Violations in Securities Markets, 
28 J. Corp. L. 607, 629 (2003) (“Once regulation of an industry 
is entrusted to jury trials, the outcomes of antitrust proceed­
ings will be inconsistent with one another . . . ”).  
Now consider these factors together—the ﬁne securities­
related lines separating the permissible from the impermissi­
ble; the need for securities-related expertise (particularly to 
determine whether an SEC rule is likely permanent); the 
overlapping evidence from which reasonable but contradic­
tory inferences may be drawn; and the risk of inconsistent 
court results.  Together these factors mean there is no prac­
tical way to conﬁne antitrust suits so that they challenge 
only activity of the kind the investors seek to target, activity 
that is presently unlawful and will likely remain unlawful 
under the securities law.  Rather, these factors suggest that 
antitrust courts are likely to make unusually serious mis­
takes in this respect.  And the threat of antitrust mistakes, 
i. e., results that stray outside the narrow bounds that plain­
tiffs seek to set, means that underwriters must act in ways 
that will avoid not simply conduct that the securities law 
forbids (and will likely continue to forbid), but also a wide 
range of joint conduct that the securities law permits or en­
courages (but which they fear could lead to an antitrust law­
suit and the risk of treble damages).  And therein lies the 
problem. 
This kind of problem exists to some degree in respect to 
other antitrust lawsuits.  But here the factors we have men­
tioned make mistakes unusually likely (a matter relevant to 
Congress’ determination of which institution should regulate 
a particular set of market activities).  And the role that joint 
conduct plays in respect to the marketing of IPOs, along with 
the important role IPOs themselves play in relation to the 
effective  functioning  of  capital  markets,  means  that  the 
securities-related costs of mistakes is unusually high.  It is 
no wonder, then, that the SEC told the District Court (con­

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  283 
Opinion of the Court 
sistent with what the Government tells us here) that a “fail­
ure to hold that the alleged conduct was immunized would 
threaten to disrupt the full range of the Commission’s ability 
to exercise its regulatory authority,” adding that it would 
have a “chilling effect” on “lawful joint activities . . . of tre­
mendous importance to the economy of the country.”  Brief 
for SEC 39–40, App. D to Pet. for Cert. 157a. 
We believe it fair to conclude that, where conduct at the 
core of the marketing of new securities is at issue; where 
securities regulators proceed with great care to distinguish 
the encouraged and permissible from the forbidden; where 
the  threat  of  antitrust  lawsuits,  through  error  and  disin­
centive, could seriously alter underwriter conduct in unde­
sirable ways, to allow an antitrust lawsuit would threaten 
serious harm to the  efﬁcient functioning of the securities 
markets. 
Second, any enforcement-related need for an antitrust law­
suit is unusually small.  For one thing, the SEC actively en­
forces the rules and regulations that forbid the conduct in 
question.  For another, as we have said, investors harmed 
by underwriters’ unlawful practices may bring lawsuits and 
obtain damages under the securities law.  See supra, at 276– 
277.  Finally, the SEC is itself required to take account of 
competitive considerations when it creates securities-related 
policy and embodies it in rules and regulations.  And that 
fact makes it somewhat less necessary to rely upon antitrust 
actions to address anticompetitive behavior.  See 15 U. S. C. 
§ 77b(b) (instructing the SEC to consider, “in addition to the 
protection of investors, whether the action will promote efﬁ­
ciency, competition, and capital formation”); § 78w(a)(2) (the 
SEC “shall consider among other matters the impact any 
such rule or regulation would have on competition”); Trinko, 
540 U. S., at 412 (“[T]he additional beneﬁt to competition pro­
vided by antitrust enforcement will tend to be small” where 
other laws and regulatory structures are “designed to deter 
and remedy anticompetitive harm”). 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
284  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Opinion of the Court 
We also note that Congress, in an effort to weed out un­
meritorious securities lawsuits, has recently tightened the 
procedural requirements that plaintiffs must satisfy when 
they ﬁle those suits.  To permit an antitrust lawsuit risks 
circumventing these requirements by permitting plaintiffs to 
dress what is essentially a securities complaint in antitrust 
clothing.  See  generally  Private  Securities  Litigation  Re­
form Act of 1995, 109 Stat. 737; Securities Litigation Uniform 
Standards Act of 1998, 112 Stat. 3227. 
In sum, an antitrust action in this context is accompanied 
by a substantial risk of injury to the securities markets and 
by a diminished need for antitrust enforcement to address 
anticompetitive conduct.  Together these considerations in­
dicate a serious conﬂict between, on the one hand, application 
of the antitrust laws and, on the other, proper enforcement 
of the securities law. 
We are aware that the Solicitor General, while recognizing 
the conﬂict, suggests a procedural device that he believes 
will avoid it (in effect, a compromise between the differing 
positions that the SEC and Antitrust Division of the Depart­
ment of Justice took in the courts below).  Compare Brief 
for Dept. of Justice, Antitrust Division, as Amicus Curiae in 
Case No. 01 CIV 2014, p. 23 (seeking no preclusion of the 
antitrust laws), with Brief for SEC 39–40, App. D to Pet. 
for Cert. 155a–157a (seeking total preclusion of the antitrust 
laws).  He asks us to remand this case to the District Court 
so that it can determine “whether respondents’ allegations 
of prohibited conduct can, as a practical matter, be separated 
from conduct that is permitted by the regulatory scheme,” 
and in doing so, the lower court should decide whether SEC­
permitted and SEC-prohibited conduct are “inextricably in­
tertwined.”  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 
9, 26.  The Solicitor General fears that otherwise, we might 
read the law as totally precluding application of the antitrust 
law to underwriting syndicate behavior, even were under­
writers, say, overtly to divide markets. 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  285 
Stevens, J., concurring in judgment 
The Solicitor General’s proposed disposition, however, does 
not  convincingly  address  the  concerns  we  have  set  forth 
here—the difﬁculty of drawing a complex, sinuous line sepa­
rating  securities-permitted  from  securities-forbidden  con­
duct, the need for securities-related expertise to draw that 
line, the likelihood that litigating parties will depend upon 
the same evidence yet expect courts to draw different infer­
ences from it, and the serious risk that antitrust courts will 
produce inconsistent results that, in turn, will overly deter 
syndicate practices important in the marketing of new is­
sues.  (We also note that market divisions appear to fall well 
outside the heartland of activities related to the underwrit­
ing process than the conduct before us here, and we express 
no view in respect to that kind of activity.) 
The upshot is that all four elements present in Gordon 
are present here: (1) an area of conduct squarely within the 
heartland of securities regulations; (2) clear and adequate 
SEC authority to regulate; (3) active and ongoing agency 
regulation; and (4) a serious conﬂict between the antitrust 
and  regulatory  regimes.  We  therefore  conclude  that  the 
securities laws are “clearly incompatible” with the applica­
tion of the antitrust laws in this context. 
The Second Circuit’s contrary judgment is 
Reversed. 
Justice Kennedy took no part in the consideration or 
decision of this case. 
Justice Stevens, concurring in the judgment. 
When investment bankers cooperate in underwriting an 
initial public offering (IPO), they increase the amount of cap­
ital available to ﬁrms producing goods and services and make 
additional securities available for purchase.  By agglomerat­
ing networks of investors and spreading the risk of overvalu­
ation, syndicates make positive contributions to the economy 
that could not be achieved through independent action.  See 
426 F. 3d 130, 137–138 (CA2 2005).  In my view, agreements 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
286  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Stevens, J., concurring in judgment 
among underwriters on how best to market IPOs, including 
agreements on price and other terms of sale to initial inves­
tors, should be treated as procompetitive joint ventures for 
purposes of antitrust analysis.  In all but the rarest of cases, 
they cannot be conspiracies in restraint of trade within the 
meaning of § 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1. 
After the initial purchase, the prices of newly issued stocks 
or bonds are determined by competition among the vast mul­
titude of other securities traded in a free market.  To sug­
gest that an underwriting syndicate can restrain trade in 
that market by manipulating the terms of IPOs is frivolous. 
See United States v. Morgan, 118 F. Supp. 621, 689 (SDNY 
1953)  (Medina,  J.)  (“[T]he  syndicate  system  has  no  effect 
whatever on general market prices, nor do the participating 
underwriters and dealers intend it to have any.  On the con­
trary, it is the general market prices of securities of compa­
rable rating and quality which control the public offering 
price . . . .  The particular issue, even if a large one, is but 
an inﬁnitesimal unit of trade in the ocean of security issues 
running into the billions, which constitutes the general mar­
ket”); see also Hovenkamp, Antitrust Violations in Securities 
Markets, 28 J. Corp. L. 607, 615–618 (2003).  It is possible, 
of course, that the practices described in the complaints in 
these two cases may have enabled the underwriters to divert 
some  of  the  beneﬁts  of  the  offerings  from  the  issuers  to 
themselves, thus breaching the agents’ ﬁduciary obligations 
to their principals.  But if such an injury did occur, it is not 
an “antitrust injury” giving rise to a damages claim by inves­
tors.  See Brunswick Corp. v. Pueblo Bowl-O-Mat, Inc., 429 
U. S. 477, 489 (1977). 
Nor do I believe that the so-called “laddering” and “tying” 
described  in  the  complaints  constitute  vertical  restraints 
that violate either the Sherman Act or § 2(c) of the 
Robinson-Patman Act, 15 U. S. C. § 13(c).  Given the magni­
tude of the market these practices are alleged to have inﬂu­
enced, I think it obvious as a matter of law that there has 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  287 
Thomas, J., dissenting 
been no injury to any relevant competition.  Unlike in Bell 
Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U. S. 544 (2007), there is no 
need to engage in discovery to determine whether there is 
any merit to the plaintiffs’ claims.  See id., at 593–595 (Ste­
vens, J., dissenting). 
The  defendants  moved  to  dismiss for  failure  to  state  a 
claim on the ground, among others, that the plaintiffs’ claims 
challenge “the ordinary activities of participants in under­
writing syndicates, which are recognized to be completely 
lawful  and  pro-competitive.”  Record,  Doc.  98,  p.  72.  I 
agree and would hold, as we did in Parker v.  Brown, 317 
U. S. 341, 351–352 (1943), that the defendants’ alleged con­
duct does not violate the antitrust laws, rather than holding 
that Congress has implicitly granted them immunity from 
those laws.  Surely I would not suggest, as the Court did in 
Twombly, and as it does again today, that either the burdens 
of antitrust litigation or the risk “that antitrust courts are 
likely  to  make  unusually  serious  mistakes,”  ante,  at  282, 
should play any role in the analysis of the question of law 
presented in a case such as this. 
Accordingly, I concur in the Court’s judgment but not in 
its opinion. 
Justice Thomas, dissenting. 
The Court believes it must decide whether the securities 
laws  implicitly  preclude  application  of  the  antitrust  laws 
because  the  securities  statutes  “are  silent  in  respect  to 
antitrust.”  See  ante,  at  271.  I  disagree  with  that  basic 
premise.  The securities statutes are not silent.  Both the 
Securities  Act  and  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  contain 
broad saving clauses that preserve rights and remedies ex­
isting outside of the securities laws. 
Section 16 of the Securities Act of 1933 states that “the 
rights and remedies provided by this subchapter shall be in 
addition to any and all other rights and remedies that may 
exist at law or in equity.”  15 U. S. C. § 77p(a).  In parallel 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
288  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Thomas, J., dissenting 
fashion, § 28 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 states 
that “the rights and remedies provided by this chapter shall 
be in addition to any and all other rights and remedies that 
may exist at law or in equity.”  § 78bb(a).  This Court has 
previously characterized those clauses as “conﬁrm[ing] that 
the remedies in each Act were to be supplemented by ‘any 
and  all’  additional  remedies.”  Herman  &  MacLean  v. 
Huddleston, 459 U. S. 375, 383 (1983). 
The Sherman Act was enacted in 1890.  See 26 Stat. 209. 
Accordingly, rights and remedies under the federal antitrust 
laws certainly would have been thought of as “rights and 
remedies” that existed “at law or in equity” by the Con­
gresses that enacted that Securities Act and the Securities 
Exchange Act in the early 1930’s.  See § 77p; § 78bb.  There­
fore,  both  statutes  explicitly  save  the  very  remedies  the 
Court holds to be impliedly precluded.  There is no convinc­
ing argument for why these saving provisions should not 
resolve this case in respondents’ favor. 
The Court’s opinion overlooks the saving clauses seem­
ingly because they do not “explicitly state whether they pre­
clude application of the antitrust laws.”  Ante, at 270; see 
also Brief for Petitioners 33, n. 5.1  As the Court observes, 
some  statutes contain  saving clauses  speciﬁc to  antitrust. 
See, e. g., Verizon Communications Inc. v.  Law Ofﬁces of 
Curtis V. Trinko, LLP, 540 U. S. 398, 406 (2004) (“ ‘[N]othing 
in this Act or the amendments made by this Act shall be 
construed to modify, impair, or supersede the applicability of 
1 The Court suggests that the argument advanced in my opinion was 
not preserved by respondents.  See ante, at 275.  Respondents’ principal 
contention in the Court of Appeals below was that “[t]he federal securities 
laws do not expressly immunize Defendants’ alleged conduct from prosecu­
tion under the federal antitrust laws.”  See, e. g., Brief for Appellants in 
No. 03–9288 (CA2), pp. 15–16.  Because a full reading of the securities 
laws is essential to analyzing respondents’ central argument, I do not con­
sider arguments based on the saving clauses unpreserved.  Cf. United 
States v.  Morton, 467 U. S. 822, 828 (1984) (“[W]e read statutes as a 
whole”). 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 551 U. S. 264 (2007)  289 
Thomas, J., dissenting 
any of the antitrust laws’ ” (quoting Telecommunications Act 
of 1996, § 601(b)(1), 110 Stat. 143, note following 47 U. S. C. 
§ 152)).  But the mere existence of targeted saving clauses 
does not demonstrate—or even suggest—that antitrust rem­
edies are not included within the “any and all” other reme­
dies to which the securities saving clauses refer.  Although 
Congress may have singled out antitrust remedies for special 
treatment in some statutes, it is not precluded from using 
more general saving provisions that encompass antitrust and 
other remedies.  Surely Congress is not required to enumer­
ate every cause of action—state and federal—that may be 
brought.  When Congress wants to preserve all other reme­
dies, using the word “all” is sufﬁcient. 
Petitioners also argue that the saving clauses should not 
apply because the clauses did not play a role in the Court’s 
prior securities-antitrust pre-emption cases.  Brief for Peti­
tioners 33, n. 5 (“[N]either provision was found to bar immu­
nity in Gordon [v. New York Stock Exchange, Inc., 422 U. S. 
659 (1975),] or [United States v. National Assn. of Securities 
Dealers, Inc., 422 U. S. 694 (1975) (NASD)]”).  Be that as it 
may, none of the opinions in Silver v. New York Stock Ex­
change, 373 U. S. 341 (1963), Gordon, or NASD—majority or 
dissent—offered any analysis of the saving clauses.  Omit­
ted reasoning has little claim to precedential value.  Absent 
any indication that these omissions were the product of rea­
soned analysis instead of inadvertent oversight, I would not 
allow the Court’s prior silence on this issue to erect a perpet­
ual bar to arguments based on a full reading of the statute’s 
relevant text. 
Finally, it might be argued that the saving clauses pre­
serve only state-law rights and remedies.  This argument 
has no textual basis.  If Congress had intended to limit the 
clauses to state law, it surely would not have phrased them 
to preserve “any and all” rights and remedies.  Other pro­
visions in both Acts, including a later sentence in the sec­
tion containing the Securities Exchange Act’s saving clause, 

NEW PAGE

551US1 Unit:$U64 [09-20-1119:07:40] PAGES PGT:OPIN
290  CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC v. BILLING 
Thomas, J., dissenting 
suggest that Congress explicitly referred to States when it 
intended  to  impose  a  state-law  limitation.  See,  e. g.,  15 
U. S. C. § 77v(a) (referring to “State and Territorial courts”); 
§ 78bb(a) (referring to the “securities commission . . . of any 
State”); cf. 17 U. S. C. § 301(b) (“Nothing in this title annuls 
or limits any rights or remedies under the common law or 
statutes of any State . . . ”).  Given Congress’ demonstrated 
ability to limit provisions of the securities laws to States and 
the lack of any such limitation here, the saving clauses can­
not be understood as limited only to state-law rights and 
remedies.2 
A straightforward application of the saving clauses to this 
case leads to the conclusion that respondents’ antitrust suits 
must proceed.  Accordingly, we do not need to reconcile any 
conﬂict between the securities laws and the antitrust laws. 
I respectfully dissent. 
2 The Court’s suggestion that the clauses were intended to save only 
securities-related rights and remedies is subject to many of the same criti­
cisms.  See ante, at 275.  The Securities Act of 1933 provided no private 
federal remedy for fraud in the purchase or sale of registered securities. 
On the Court’s proposed reading of § 77p, however, a federal action for 
mail  or  wire  fraud  and  a  state-law  action  for  fraud,  which  are  not 
securities-related rights or remedies, would not have been included within 
the Securities Act’s saving provision. 

NEW PAGE