OCTOBER TERM, 1991
Syllabus
NATIONAL  RAILROAD  PASSENGER  CORPORATION
ET  AL.  v. BOSTON  & MAINE  CORP. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS  FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
No. 90-1419.  Argued January 13, 1992-Decided March 25, 1992*
The Rail Passenger Service Act of 1970  (RPSA) created petitioner Na-
tional Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak), a private corporation,
to provide intercity and commuter rail passenger service.  The Act per-
mits Amtrak to enter into "trackage rights" agreements to use tracks
owned and used by freight railroads, 45 U. S. C. § 562(a), and allows Am-
trak to ask petitioner Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) to con-
demn railroad property "required for intercity rail passenger service" if
Amtrak and the railroad  cannot agree upon sale terms, § 562(d).  For
purposes of the ICC's condemnation order, Amtrak's "need for the prop-
erty" "shall be  deemed to be established"  unless the conveyance  will
significantly impair the railroad's ability to carry out its obligations as
a common  carrier and unless Amtrak's  obligations  can adequately  be
met by  the acquisition  of alternative property.  Ibid.  Amtrak had a
"trackage rights" agreement with respondent Boston and Maine Corpo-
ration (B&M)  to operate its "Montrealer"  train between Washington,
D. C., and Montreal.  Amtrak claims it was forced to discontinue this
service because of B&M's poor maintenance of its track segment.  Subse-
quently, Amtrak entered into an agreement with petitioner Central Ver-
mont Railroad (CV) which provided that, among other things, Amtrak
would acquire  the B&M  track and reconvey it to CV, and CV would
grant trackage  rights to Amtrak  and usage  rights to  B&M.  When
B&M  did not accept  Amtrak's  purchase  offer  for the  track, Amtrak
sought, and received, an ICC order compelling conveyance for just com-
pensation.  The ICC found, among other things, that § 562(d) created a
statutory presumption of Amtrak's need for the track, which B&M failed
to rebut.  The Court of Appeals remanded the case for further proceed-
ings, concluding that, because Amtrak did not intend to retain the track,
it needed only its use, not its ownership.  While petitions for rehearing
were pending, §562(d)  was amended to allow Amtrak to subsequently
convey title to acquired property to a third party if the ICC finds the
reconveyance  furthers  the RPSA's  purposes.  Nonetheless,  the court
*Together with No. 90-1769, Interstate Commerce Commission et al. v.
Boston & Maine Corp. et al., also on certiorari to the same court.

NEW PAGE

408  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Syllabus
denied rehearing, holding that the condemnation was not valid because
the property was not "required for intercity rail passenger service."
Held.
1. The ICC's decision was based on a reasonable interpretation and
application of § 562(d).  Pp. 417-424.
(a) The ICC's interpretation of the word "required" is due defer-
ence as a reasonable interpretation of an ambiguous term in a statute
that the ICC administers.  See, e. g.,  Chevron U S. A  Inc. v. Natural
Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837.  The existence of alter-
native dictionary  definitions for "required" indicates  that the  statute
is  open  to  interpretation.  The  ICC's  interpretation  gives  effect  to
§ 562(d)'s  presumption  of need.  In  contrast,  the  Court  of Appeals'
view-that "required"  establishes  a separate condition  that Amtrak's
condemnation authority is limited to property that is indispensable to
its operations-is in clear tension with the presumption.  In addition,
§ 562(d)'s amendment confirms the ICC's definition, while the Court of
Appeals' strict rule would make the amendment superfluous by barring
condemnation whenever Amtrak's purpose is to reconvey property.
Pp. 417-420.
(b) The ICC was not required  to make specific findings regarding
Amtrak's  actual  need for the condemnation  because its oversight re-
sponsibility is limited to ensuring that condemned property will be used
in Amtrak's rail operations.  The statute's structure and its presump-
tion of need create a strong inference that it authorizes Amtrak to make
a reasonable  business judgment that condemnation is advisable, unless
the statutory presumption is rebutted.  Pp. 420-421.
(c) B&M's several arguments against the ICC's interpretation are
rejected.  The eminent domain power has been given to the ICC, not
a private entity, and  thus  is not limited  as suggested  by cases  such
as United States v. Carmack, 329 U. S. 230, 243, n. 13.  Furthermore,
these  cases turn on the  need for  deference  to  the ICC, not  to Am-
trak.  The  ICC's  interpretation  of § 562(d)  also  did  not  violate  the
"public  use" requirement  of the Fifth Amendment's  Takings Clause,
since the ICC's determination that the condemnation will serve a pub-
lic  purpose  by  facilitating  Amtrak's  rail  service  was not  irrational.
See, e. g., Hawaii Housing Authority v. Midkiff, 467 U. S. 229, 240-241.
Moreover, the ICC did not err in concluding that the statutory prerequi-
site that the parties were "unable  to agree  upon terms for the sale"
mandated nothing more  than a factual determination that they would
be unable to reach agreement through further negotiations.  Nor did it
make inadequate factual findings in concluding that B&M had not rebut-
ted the presumption of need.  The ICC was not unreasonable in consid-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
ering the effect of trackage rights and the just compensation award in
assessing whether  the  conveyance  would  significantly  impair  B&M's
ability to carry out its obligations, or in interpreting the availability-
of-alternative-property  provision  as  referring  only  to  whether  Am-
trak could  provide service using an alternative route, not whether a
lesser interest in property would suffice to meet Amtrak's needs.
Pp. 421-424.
2. The  parties' challenges to the ICC's just compensation finding as
well as certain other issues should be resolved on remand.  P. 424.
286 U. S. App. D. C. 1, 911 F. 2d 743, reversed and remanded.
KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and STEVENS, O'CONNOR, SCALIA, and SOUTER, JJ., joined.  WHITE,
J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which BLACKMUN and THOMAS, JJ., joined,
post, p. 424.
Acting  Solicitor General Roberts argued  the  cause  for
petitioners  in  both  cases.  With  him  on  the  briefs  for
petitioners in  No.  90-1769  were Deputy Solicitor General
Wallace, Michael R.  Dreeben, Robert S.  Burk,  Henri F
Rush, and Charles A. Stark.  Robert P. vom Eigen, Charles
I. Appler, Theodore A. Howard, Richard F Riley, Jr., Louis
R. Cohen, Stephen C. Rogers, and  Frederick C. Ohly filed
briefs for petitioners in No. 90-1419.
Irwin Go ldbloom argued the cause for respondents in both
cases and filed a brief for respondent Boston  & Maine  Cor-
poration.  Jeffrey  L.  Amestoy,  Attorney  General  of  Ver-
mont, John K. Dunleavy, Assistant Attorney General,  Rex
E. Lee, G. Paul Moates, Ronald S. Flagg, Robert J  Baum,
and Michael F McBride filed a brief for respondents  State
of Vermont et al.t
JUSTICE KENNEDY  delivered the opinion of the Court.
The  Interstate  Commerce  Commission  (ICC or Commis-
sion) issued an order, upon the request of petitioner National
tLaurence Z. Shiekman, Paul A  Cunningham, Robert M. Jenkins III,
and Bruce B. Wilson filed a brief for Concerned Railroads as amicus cu-
riae urging affirmance.

NEW PAGE

410  NATIONAL RAILROAD  PASSENGER CORPORATION  v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
Railroad  Passenger  Corporation,  requiring  conveyance  of
48.8  miles  of railroad  track  from  respondent  Boston  and
Maine Corporation (B&M) to the Corporation.  In these con-
solidated  cases we must decide  whether the ICC's decision
was  based  on  a  reasonable  interpretation  and  application
of § 402(d)  of the  Rail  Passenger  Service  Act,  45  U. S. C.
§ 562(d), the statute the Corporation invoked in the proceed-
ing.  We hold the ICC's decision is authorized by the statute,
and so reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia  Circuit, which  set aside  the Commis-
sion's action.
I
The National Railroad Passenger Corporation, or Amtrak,
is a private, for-profit corporation created by Congress in the
Rail Passenger Service Act of 1970 (RPSA), Pub. L. 91-518,
84 Stat. 1328, 45 U. S. C. § 501 et seq.  The purpose of Am-
trak is to provide  modern  and  efficient  intercity and  com-
muter rail  passenger  service.  §§501,  541.  Amtrak  is not
an agency  or instrumentality  of the United  States Govern-
ment,  § 541,  but it has  been  supported  over the years  by
congressional  appropriations.  Most of Amtrak's passenger
trains  run over existing track systems owned  and  used by
freight  railroads.  In  the RPSA  Congress  authorized  Am-
trak to enter into "trackage rights" agreements which would
allow  Amtrak  to  use  those  tracks.  When  Amtrak  and  a
freight railroad  are unable to agree on the terms of such an
agreement, Amtrak may request the ICC to order the track
to be provided on reasonable terms.  § 562(a).
In  1973  Congress  amended  the RPSA to add  subsection
(d) of § 402, 45  U. S. C. § 562(d).  Section 562(d) provides in
pertinent part:
"(1)  If the Corporation [Amtrak] and a railroad are un-
able to agree upon terms for the sale to the Corporation
of property  (including interests in property) owned by
the railroad  and  required  for  intercity  rail  passenger

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
service, the Corporation  may apply to the Commission
[ICC] for an order establishing the need of the Corpo-
ration for the property at issue and requiring the con-
veyance thereof from the railroad to the Corporation on
reasonable terms and conditions, including just compen-
sation.  Unless the Commission finds that-
"(A)  conveyance  of  the  property  to  the  Corporation
would  significantly  impair the ability of the railroad to
carry out its obligations as a common carrier; and
"(B)  the obligations of the Corporation  to provide mod-
ern, efficient, and economical rail passenger service can
adequately be met by the acquisition of alternative prop-
erty (including interests in property) which is available
for sale on reasonable terms to the Corporation, or avail-
able to the Corporation by the exercise of its authority
under section 545(d) of this title,
"the need  of the Corporation  for the property shall be
deemed  to  be  established  and  the  Commission  shall
order the conveyance of the property to the Corporation
on such reasonable terms and conditions as it may pre-
scribe, including just compensation."
Amtrak may condemn  nonrail  property under a  somewhat
similar provision, § 545(d), a statute not at issue here.
The  Amtrak  train  the "Montrealer"  began offering  pas-
senger service between  Washington, D. C., and Montreal in
1972.  In parts of Massachusetts, Vermont, and New Hamp-
shire the train used the tracks of the Connecticut River Line
(Conn River Line), portions of which are owned by B&M and
other portions by the Central Vermont Railroad (CV).  B&M
and CV have operated freight trains on the Conn River Line
under reciprocal  "trackage  rights" agreements  dating back
to 1930.
In 1977 Amtrak entered into a "trackage rights" agreement
with B&M under which B&M agreed to maintain its portions
of the Conn River Line.  Those portions include a 48.8-mile

NEW PAGE

412  NATIONAL  RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
segment of track on the Conn River Line between  Brattle-
boro and Windsor, Vermont.  This is the segment of track at
issue here.  At first the arrangement to maintain the track
proceeded well, but in the early 1980's problems developed.
Guilford Transportation Industries, Inc., purchased B&M out
of bankruptcy, and purchased also a railroad operating a par-
allel line.  Amtrak's claim  is that neglect  of track mainte-
nance  resulting  from this  purchase  caused  delays  in  Mon-
trealer  service.  Maintenance  of  the  Brattleboro-Windsor
track was so poor that at points the train was slowed to five
miles  an  hour.  Negotiations  for  better  maintenance  were
unsuccessful.  In April  1987  Amtrak  was forced  to discon-
tinue its Montrealer service.
Congress responded to these events in July 1987 by appro-
priating $5 million to upgrade the Montrealer route.  Act of
July  11,  1987,  Pub. L.  100-71,  101  Stat. 447-448.  Amtrak
decided not to spend the money to upgrade the Conn River
Line  while  B&M continued  to own it, because  in Amtrak's
view B&M  could  not be relied  upon  to maintain  the track
once  restored.  Amtrak  began  negotiations  with  CV  and,
in  early  1988,  reached  a  preliminary  agreement.  Amtrak
promised to use its statutory condemnation power to acquire
the 48.8 miles  of track in question, to at once reconvey the
track  to CV, and  to  provide  up to $3.1  million  to  upgrade
and  rehabilitate  the segment.  In  return, CV promised  to
provide  the  balance of the funds  necessary  to upgrade  the
track, to maintain the track for 20 years in a condition meet-
ing Amtrak's standards, to grant Amtrak trackage rights for
20  years,  and  to  grant B&M  trackage  rights  to  serve  its
existing customers.  As a prerequisite  to invoking § 562(d),
Amtrak made an offer to B&M to purchase the segment for
$1 million, on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.  B&M offered to ne-
gotiate the terms under which it would be willing to upgrade
the segment and stated:  "II]t appears  clear that there is no
need to pursue the very complex 'offer to purchase' set forth
in your letter."  App. 60.  B&M's refusal to accept the offer

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
seems to have been  anticipated by Amtrak and CV, as indi-
cated  by an  internal  CV Memorandum  written in January
1988.  App. 94.
Interpreting the B&M communication as a rejection of its
offer, Amtrak instituted this proceeding before  the ICC to
compel  conveyance  of the track.  CVfiled  a  simultaneous
request for an exemption from ICC regulation for its acquisi-
tion of the segment upon reconveyance from Amtrak.
B&M assessed  the transaction as a significant shift in its
long competition  with  CV  for freight  traffic.  CV  already
owned large parts of the Conn River Line and after the pro-
posed  transaction  it would  own most of it.  Though  B&M
would have trackage rights, CV would gain not only owner-
ship of the segment, but also the right to obtain new custom-
ers on its route.  B&M alleged  this gave a new advantage
to  CV's  corporate  parent,  the Canadian  National  Railway
Company, for each railroad links up with competing compa-
nies in Canada.  CV's lines link to Canadian National, while
B&M's lines link to the Canadian Pacific, Ltd., Canadian Na-
tional's competitor.  B&M challenged the transaction as sim-
ply a device to shift ownership among railroads, not to give
ownership to Amtrak, which, B&M argued, was the sole pur-
pose of the condemnation provision.
B&M filed initial objections to the § 562(d) proceeding  on
two grounds:  that Amtrak had  not shown  that the  parties
were unable to agree on reasonable terms of sale, and that
§ 562(d)  did  not  authorize  condemnation  of  railroad  lines.
The ICC rejected  B&M's arguments  and in a condemnation
proceeding held that Amtrak had shown the inability of the
parties to agree to terms.  It ruled that § 562(d) covers rail-
road  tracks because  tracks are  "rail property 'required  for
intercity rail passenger service."'  App. to Pet. for Cert. in
No.  90-1419,  pp. 130a-133a.  B&M  next sought to convert
the  proceeding  into  a  trackage  rights  proceeding  under
§ 562(a), but the ICC again rejected B&M's position, holding
that Amtrak had an "election  of remedies"  under § 562 and

NEW PAGE

414  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
so had no obligation to seek trackage rights under subsection
(a) before invoking subsection (d).  Id., at 115a-116a.  Mean-
while, CV and the States of Vermont and Massachusetts,  as
well as numerous other parties, intervened  in the ICC pro-
ceeding.  (CV appears as a petitioner before this Court, and
Vermont and Massachusetts  support petitioners.)
This  was  the  first decided  case involving  Amtrak's  con-
demnation powers under § 562(d).  Id., at 39a.  The  ICC is-
sued its final decision in 1988 and ordered conveyance of the
segment  with  just  compensation  of  $2,373,286.  It  reaf-
firmed earlier rulings and found that Amtrak "ha[d] met the
statutory criteria for the institution of a proceeding" under
§ 562(d).  Id., at 40a-42a, 81a.
The ICC concluded that the presumption of Amtrak's need
for the track contained in § 562(d)(1)  was applicable.  In its
view both statutory criteria must be  met to rebut the pre-
sumption,  and  B&M  had  established  neither.  As  to alter-
native property (subsection (B)), the ICC found that no rea-
sonable alternative route existed for the Montrealer service.
And as to significant  impairment of B&M's ability to carry
out its common carrier obligations (subsection (A)), the ICC
found that because  B&M had been awarded just compensa-
tion  and  could  continue  to  serve  its  customers  under the
"trackage  rights"  agreement  which  was  part of the trans-
action,  its ability  had not been  impaired.  Id.,  at 45a-46a.
The bulk of the ICC's final  decision deals with the question
of just compensation,  which  is not before  this Court.  See
infra, at 424.
On  petition for  review, a  divided  panel  of the  Court of
Appeals  for  the  District  of Columbia  Circuit  granted  the
petition  and  remanded  the  matter  to  the  ICC  for further
proceedings.  286  U. S.  App. D. C.  1, 911  F. 2d  743 (1990).
The majority held that § 562(d)  does not permit Amtrak to
condemn railroad  property which it intends  to reconvey  to
another railroad.  It acknowledged  that the ICC had inter-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
preted § 562 in a different way, and that in the usual course
judicial deference would be given to its interpretation under
the principles enunciated in Chevron U S. A. Inc. v. Natural
Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467  U. S. 837  (1984);  but
the court concluded  that § 562(d) is unambiguous  in light of
its language and history, and so no deference was due.  The
panel majority reasoned that because Amtrak did not intend
to retain the track to be condemned, it needed only its use,
not its ownership.  As Amtrak could obtain use of the prop-
erty  by  obtaining  either  a  "trackage  rights"  agreement
under § 562(a), or by condemning an easement under § 562(d),
the entire fee  interest was not "'required  for intercity rail
passenger service."'  286  U. S. App.  D. C.,  at 8,  911  F. 2d,
at 750.  The majority stated that its holding was confirmed
by other considerations, including: (1) the potential constitu-
tional  problems,  under  the Takings  Clause,  raised  by  the
ICC's  interpretation  of § 562(d);  (2)  the structure  of §562,
which indicated an intent on the part of Congress to relegate
Amtrak to trackage rights under § 562(a) when seeking only
the  use  of  track;  and  (3)  Congress'  policy  against  cross-
subsidization between sectors of the railroad industry, which
the majority  concluded  would  have been  violated  by  this
transaction.  Judge Ruth B. Ginsburg concurred  separately,
rejecting  the  majority's  interpretation  of the  statute, but
concluding that a remand to the ICC was necessary because
the  ICC  had  not  made  adequate  findings  to  determine
whether Amtrak  in  fact  needed  to  shift ownership  of the
segment from B&M  to CV to protect its interests.  Id., at
11-13, 911 F. 2d, at 753-755.  This factual question, whether
Amtrak's  portrayal  of a  recalcitrant  B&M  is accurate,  re-
mains  in  dispute.  Under  our resolution  of the case, how-
ever, the issue need not be reached.
Amtrak  and  the  ICC  ified  petitions  for  rehearing,  and
while the petitions were pending Congress amended § 562(d).
The amendment, adopted in specific response to the Court of

NEW PAGE

416  NATIONAL  RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION  v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
Appeals' decision  in this case, added  the following sentence
to  § 562(d)(1):  "The  Corporation  may  subsequently  convey
title or other interest in  such property to  a third  party, if
such  reconveyance  is found  by  the Commission  to further
the purposes of this Act."  Independent  Safety  Board  Act
Amendments of 1990  § 9(a), Pub. L.  101-641,  104 Stat. 4658.
The  amendment  was  made applicable  to all pending cases,
§ 9(b), and B&M does not dispute that it applied in this case
even while it was before the Court of Appeals on rehearing.
Brief for  Respondent  B&M  33-35.  The  Court of Appeals
considered the 1990 amendment, but denied rehearing none-
theless.  288 U. S. App. D. C. 196, 925 F. 2d 427 (1991).  The
panel majority held that while § 9 made it clear Amtrak was
authorized  to reconvey  condemned  property "subsequent to
a condemnation  that is  otherwise  valid under [§ 562(d)],"  it
did not change the statutory limitation that the property be
"'required  for intercity rail passenger service'  in the first
place.  Id., at 197, 925 F. 2d, at 428 (emphasis in  original).
The  majority reasoned  that since  its original decision  was
based  on Amtrak's  failure  to satisfy  that requirement,  the
amendment did not affect its holding.  The majority also dis-
tinguished  a case from the Second  Circuit, National Rail-
road PassengerC  orp. v. Two Parcels of Land, 822 F. 2d 1261,
cert.  denied,  484  U. S.  954  (1987),  which  had  interpreted
§ 545(d)(1)  (the provision  authorizing  Amtrak  to  condemn
nonrail property) to permit reconveyance  following condem-
nation.  288 U. S. App. D. C., at 196-197, 425 F. 2d, at 427-
428.  In a separate opinion, Judge Ginsburg wrote that the
amendment confirmed her view that the ICC had not misin-
terpreted the statute, but that a remand remained necessary
for further factual determinations.
Amtrak and CV, in No. 90-1419,  and the ICC, in No. 90-
1769, filed separate petitions seeking review of the Court of
Appeals'  decision.  We granted  certiorari and  consolidated
the cases.  502 U. S. 807 (1991).  We now reverse.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
II
The primary question raised by these cases  is a straight-
forward matter of statutory interpretation: whether § 562(d),
as  amended,  authorizes  the condemnation  and  transaction
approved by the ICC but set aside by the Court of Appeals.
The Court of Appeals disallowed the transaction based on its
own  interpretation  of the language  "required  for intercity
rail passenger service"  in § 562(d)(1).  In  so holding it lim-
ited Amtrak's condemnation authority to property that was
necessary, in the sense of indispensable, to Amtrak's opera-
tions.  The ICC interpreted the relevant statutory language
to give Amtrak more latitude, and it is our task to determine
whether  the  Commission  had  authority  for  its  statutory
interpretation.
Judicial  deference  to  reasonable  interpretations  by  an
agency  of a  statute that it administers  is a dominant, well-
settled principle of federal law.  We relied upon it in Chev-
ron U S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,
467 U. S. 837 (1984), and have reaffirmed it often.  See, e. g.,
K mart Corp. v. Cartier,I nc., 486 U. S. 281, 292-293  (1988);
Pauley v. BethEnergy Mines, Inc., 501  U. S.  680, 696-697
(1991).  These  decisions  mandate  that when  a court  is re-
viewing an agency decision based on a statutory interpreta-
tion, "if the statute  is silent or ambiguous  with respect to
the specific  issue, the question for the court is whether the
agency's answer is based on a permissible construction of the
statute."  Chevron U S. A., supra,a t 843.  If the agency in-
terpretation is not in conflict with the plain language  of the
statute, deference  is due.  K mart Corp., 486  U. S., at 292.
In ascertaining whether the agency's interpretation is a per-
missible construction  of the language, a court must look to
the structure  and language  of the statute as a whole.  Id.,
at 291; Sullivan v. Everhart, 494 U. S. 83, 89 (1990).  If the
text is ambiguous  and so open to interpretation in some re-
spects, a degree of deference is granted to the agency, though

NEW PAGE

418  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION  v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
a reviewing  court  need not accept an interpretation which
is unreasonable.
Under these principles the ICC's interpretation of § 562(d)
was permissible, and the Court of Appeals'  decision  was in
error to disregard it.  While the ICC's opinion is not explicit
in all  of its  details, the Commission's  decision  is based  on
a  reading of the statute  quite  different  from the Court of
Appeals'.  The  ICC agreed  that property Amtrak seeks  to
condemn under § 562(d) must be  "required for intercity rail
passenger service."  It determined, however, that the word
"required" need not mean, as the Court of Appeals'  opinion
suggests, indispensable or necessary.  Instead, the ICC gave
effect to the statutory presumption of Amtrak's need for the
track, and in so doing implemented and interpreted the stat-
ute in a manner that comports with its words and structure.
The analysis of the Court of Appeals is inconsistent with the
Commission's interpretation of the statutory presumption of
need.  The  ICC's  position  before  the  Court  is  that  "re-
quired" can also mean "useful or appropriate," Brief for Peti-
tioners in No. 90-1769, p. 17, and that the order under review
adopted that meaning.  We agree that the manner in which
the ICC has applied the statute in this case has that inter-
pretation as its basic premise.  App. to Pet. for Cert. in No.
90-1419, pp. 42a-46a.
In its brief the ICC cites a dictionary definition in support
of its view.  Brief for Petitioners in No. 90-1769, p. 17, citing
Webster's Third  New International  Dictionary  1929  (1986).
The  existence  of  alternative  dictionary  definitions  of  the
word "required," each making some sense under the statute,
itself indicates  that  the  statute  is  open  to interpretation.
See Sullivan v. Everhart, supra.  Few phrases in a complex
scheme  of regulation are so clear as to be beyond the need
for interpretation when applied in a real context.  Further,
the structure of the provision reinforces our conclusion that
statutory interpretation is appropriate and that the Court of
Appeals'  interpretation  is  itself open  to  serious  question.

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
The court defined the word "required" to establish a separate
condition that the property sought to be condemned  be nec-
essary (indispensable) for Amtrak's operations, a view which
is not without support.  See, e. g.,  American  Heritage Dic-
tionary of the  English  Language  1105  (2d ed. 1981).  This
interpretation, though, leaves  little substance to the statu-
tory presumption in favor of Amtrak's need and so is in clear
tension with that part of the statute.
We decide that § 562(d) is ambiguous in some respects and
conclude  that  the  ICC's  interpretation  of  the  word  "re-
quired" is a reasonable one.  We defer to its interpretation.
This is not to say that the issue is beyond dispute, but these
alternative interpretations are as old as the jurisprudence of
this Court.  In McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 413
(1819),  Chief Justice Marshall, in a choice of interpretations
with  some parallels to this one, read the word "necessary"
to mean "convenient, or useful," rejecting a stricter reading
of the term which  would have limited congressional  power
under  the  Constitution  to  the  "most  direct  and  simple"
means available.  We think that as a matter of definition and
interpretation in the context of this statute it is plausible, if
not preferable, to say that Amtrak can find that an acquisi-
tion is required when it is a useful and appropriate way to
accomplish its goals.
The  Commission's  interpretation  is  consistent  also with
the 1990 statutory addition enacted by Congress.  While the
amendment does not modify the specific language of § 562(d)
at issue here, it confirms  the ICC's view.  The  interpreta-
tion  given to  § 562(d)  by  the  Court of Appeals  and  B&M,
on the other hand, would make the amendment superfluous,
because  if the word  "required" has the strict meaning they
seek to attribute to it, condemnations by Amtrak would seem
to be barred whenever Amtrak's purpose is to reconvey  the
property.
Contrary to the position of the dissent, we are not "defer-
ring to what we imagine an agency had in mind."  Post, at

NEW PAGE

420  NATIONAL  RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE  CORP.
Opinion of the Court
428.  Rather, we defer to an interpretation which was a nec-
essary presupposition of the ICC's decision.  We  recognize
the well-established  rule that an agency's  action may not be
upheld on grounds other than those relied on by the agency.
SEC v. Chenery Corp., 318 U. S. 80, 88 (1943).  But the fact
that the ICC did not in so many words articulate its interpre-
tation of the word  "required"  does  not mean that we may
not defer to that  interpretation, since  the only  reasonable
reading of the Commission's  opinion, and the only plausible
explanation  of the  issues  that  the  Commission  addressed
after considering the factual submissions by all of the par-
ties, is that the ICC's decision  was based on the proffered
interpretation.  Chenery does  not require  a remand  under
those circumstances.  It is noteworthy  in this regard  that
neither party contends the ICC's decision was not informed
and governed by this statutory interpretation.  B&M's pri-
mary argument to the Court is that the word required must
mean  necessary.  Brief  for  Respondent  B&M  16,  22,  44.
But this, as we have said, is quite inconsistent with the statu-
tory presumption of need to which the ICC gave effect.
There is no dispute on this record that Amtrak intends to
use the condemned track for its Montrealer service.  Under
the ICC's view that use is sufficient to satisfy the statutory
command  that  the rail property  be  "required  for intercity
rail passenger service."  This is a reasonable  interpretation
and application  of the RPSA.  And  it ends the judicial in-
quiry on this point.
What we have said also answers Judge Ginsburg's concern
that the ICC must make specific findings regarding Amtrak's
actual need for the condemnation.  The contention that such
a finding was necessary, to implement the statutory criterion
that the property be "required  for intercity rail  passenger
service,"  was the basis for Judge Ginsburg's concurrence  in
the Court of Appeals.  286 U. S. App. D. C., at 12, 911 F. 2d,
at 754.  That position, however, appears to be based on the
same interpretation of the word "required" as that adopted

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
by the Court of Appeals' majority, and so is inconsistent with
the ICC's interpretation.  The ICC contends that the factual
finding is not mandated.  It argues that the structure of the
statute, combined with the presumption created by the stat-
ute  of Amtrak's  need  for  the  property  sought,  creates  a
strong inference that the statute authorizes Amtrak to make
a  reasonable  business judgment  that  condemnation  of the
property is advisable.  We agree.  The ICC's oversight re-
sponsibility, exercised by enforcing  the "required for inter-
city rail passenger service" language  as interpreted  by the
Commission, is limited to ensuring that the condemned prop-
erty will be used in Amtrak's rail operations.  The further
determination  of need  is delegated  to Amtrak,  unless  the
statutory  presumption  is  rebutted;  and  it is not  rebutted
here.  Indeed, as our  discussion above  indicates, supra, at
418-419, it seems to us that any other interpretation may be
inconsistent with the statutory presumption of need.  In all
events, the ICC's interpretation is a reasonable one, and we
may not substitute a different view.
Arguing against the ICC's interpretation, B&M cites to us
cases such as  United States v. Carmack, 329 U. S. 230, 243,
n.  13 (1946),  which  suggest that delegations of eminent  do-
main power to private entities are of a limited nature.  We
do not believe that argument has any relevance here because
Amtrak  does  not  exercise  eminent  domain  power  under
§ 562(d).  Rather, the statute gives that power to the ICC, a
Government agency.  To be sure, the statute creates a pre-
sumption in favor of conveyance  to Amtrak.  But the ICC
must  assess  the  impact of any  condemnation  and  make  a
determination  as  to just compensation.  Since  § 562(d)  is a
proper exercise of regulatory authority, and the ICC's over-
sight of Amtrak  is intended  to ensure  compliance  with the
statute, the eminent domain power here is not private.
Furthermore, this case turns on the need for deference to
the ICC, not Amtrak.  There  is nothing in the cases  B&M
cites  contradicting  the  rule  of  judicial  deference  to  an

NEW PAGE

422  NATIONAL RAILROAD  PASSENGER CORPORATION  v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
Opinion of the Court
agency's  statutory interpretation,  even when the statute is
one authorizing condemnation of private property.  In short,
the principle advanced  by B&M does not prevail over Chev-
ron's rule of deference.
We  also  reject  B&M's  constitutional  objections.  B&M
claims  that § 562(d) as interpreted  by  the Commission vio-
lates the "public use" requirement of the Fifth Amendment's
Takings  Clause,  because  the transaction  leaves  unchanged
the use  made by Amtrak of the condemned  track.  B&M's
position cannot be reconciled with our precedents.  We have
held that the public use requirement of the Takings  Clause
is  coterminous  with  the  regulatory  power,  and  that  the
Court will not strike down a condemnation on the basis that
it lacks a public use so long as the taking "is  rationally re-
lated  to  a  conceivable  public  purpose."  Hawaii Housing
Authority v. Midkiff, 467 U. S. 229, 240-241 (1984);  see also
Berman v. Parker, 348  U. S. 26,  32-34 (1954).  In Midkiff
we upheld land reform legislation which authorized condem-
nations for the specific purpose of transferring ownership to
another private party, in order to eliminate a land oligopoly.
In Berman we permitted land condemnations which contem-
plated reselling the land to redevelopers, as part of a plan to
restore dilapidated sections of the District of Columbia.  In
both Midkiff and Berman, as in the present case, condemna-
tion resulted in the transfer of ownership from one  private
party to another, with the basic use of the property by the
government  remaining  unchanged.  The  Court  held  these
exercises of the condemnation power to be constitutional, as
long as the condemning authorities were rational in their po-
sitions that some public  purpose was  served.  Those  hold-
ings control here, for there can be no serious argument that
the ICC was irrational in determining that the condemnation
will serve a public purpose by facilitating Amtrak's rail serv-
ice.  That suffices  to satisfy the Constitution, and  we need
not make a specific factual determination  whether the con-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
Opinion of the Court
demnation  will  accomplish  its  objectives.  Midkiff, supra,
at 242-243.
As  a last  effort,  B&M  argues  that  this  matter must  be
remanded  to the ICC because the Commission did not make
adequate  and accurate  findings regarding  several  different
matters.  B&M claims that Amtrak failed to prove the par-
ties  were "'unable'  to  agree" on  terms of sale.  In  B&M's
view, § 562(d) demands that Amtrak engage in "good faith...
negotiations" before it may invoke its condemnation powers.
Brief for Respondent B&M 42.  The ICC construed the lan-
guage of § 562(d) in a more narrow fashion, to mandate noth-
ing more than  a factual determination  that the parties will
not be able to reach agreement through further negotiations.
App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 90-1419, pp. 130a-131a ("Noth-
ing in this record provides  any indication that Amtrak and
B&M will ever reach agreement on terms of sale").  This is
a  reasonable  interpretation of the phrase  "unable  to  agree
upon terms for the sale," and we do not substitute a different
view.  Thus the Commission did not err in concluding  that
this statutory prerequisite was satisfied.
B&M argues further that the ICC made inadequate factual
findings in concluding:  (1) that this conveyance  will not sig-
nificantly  impair B&M's ability  to carry out its obligations
as  a  common  carrier,  §5 62(d)(1)(A);  and  (2)  that  Amtrak's
obligations  cannot be met by the acquisition  of alternative
property, § 562(d)(1)(B).  As to significant impairment, B&M's
argument, like the decision  of the Court of Appeals on this
point, 286 U. S. App. D. C., at 8-9, 911 F. 2d, at 750-751, relies
on the notion that in assessing impairment the ICC may con-
sider only the conveyance itself, not any mitigating measures
adopted in response to the conveyance,  such as the grant of
trackage  rights  to  B&M.  We  find no  basis in  the text or
structure of § 562(d) for this position and cannot say that the
statute must be  interpreted  to mandate  such  a  restrictive
inquiry.  The ICC was not unreasonable  in considering the
effect of the "trackage  rights" agreements and the just com-

NEW PAGE

424  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE  CORP.
WHITE, J., dissenting
pensation award in assessing significant impairment; and the
ICC's conclusion, that B&M's ability to carry out its common
carrier obligations will not be impaired by the transaction in
any  significant  way, is supported  by  substantial  evidence.
As to the availability of alternative property, the ICC inter-
preted that provision as referring only to whether Amtrak
could provide service using an alternative route, not whether
a lesser interest in property would suffice to meet Amtrak's
needs.  Again, this  was  a reasonable  reading  to which  we
defer.  Since  B&M would  have to prevail on both  the sig-
nificant impairment and alternative property issues to rebut
Amtrak's presumption of need, there can be  no doubt that
the ICC's finding that Amtrak established  its need for the
property must be affirmed.
III
For the reasons we have stated, we hold that the ICC did
not exceed its authority in ordering conveyance of the 48.8-
mile segment of the Conn River Line from B&M to Amtrak.
Because  of its  contrary holding on this point, the Court of
Appeals did not address the parties' challenges to the ICC's
just  compensation  finding as  well  as  certain  other issues.
Id., at 11,  911  F. 2d, at 753.  These questions should be re-
solved  on remand.  The judgment of the Court of Appeals
is reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceed-
ings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE  WHITE,  with  whom  JUSTICE  BLACKMUN  and
JUSTICE THOMAS join, dissenting.
The  majority opinion proceeds  from  the well-established
principle  that courts should defer to permissible agency in-
terpretations  of ambiguous  legislation.1  Chevron  U. S. A.
II agree with the majority that the Court of Appeals erred in concluding
that § 402(d) of the Rail Passenger Service Act (RPSA), 45 U. S. C. § 562(d),
unambiguously  prohibits transactions such as the sale and leaseback ar-

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
WHITE, J., dissenting
Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467  U. S.
837, 843 (1984); Pauley v. BethEnergy Mines, Inc., 501 U. S.
680, 696-697  (1991).  I have no  quarrel  with that  general
proposition.  I do, however, object to its invocation to justify
the majority's deference, not to an agency interpretation of
a statute, but to the post hoc rationalization of Government
lawyers  attempting to explain  a  gap in  the reasoning  and
factfinding of the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC or
Commission).  Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States,
Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co.,  463 U. S. 29,
50 (1983).
Section 402(d) of the RPSA, codified at 45 U. S. C. § 562(d),
provides  that Amtrak  may  apply  to the  ICC  for an  order
directing  the conveyance  of another  railroad's  property  if
Amtrak can meet two conditions: Amtrak and the other rail-
road must be unable to agree upon terms for sale of the prop-
erty, and  the property  must be  "required for intercity rail
passenger service."  If these conditions  are met, "the need
of [Amtrak]  for the property  shall be  deemed  to be  estab-
lished," and the other railroad will be able to retain its prop-
erty only if it can rebut the strong presumption of Amtrak's
need.  Ibid.
Because conferring upon Amtrak the presumption of need
will determine the outcome of most disputes under this sec-
tion, the two conditions  that Amtrak  must establish to re-
ceive  the benefit of the presumption  assume particular im-
portance.  However, in the present case, the ICC failed  to
address one of these factors.  Although the Commission de-
termined that the parties had been unable to come to terms
for sale of the disputed property, see App. to Pet. for Cert.
in  No.  90-1419,  pp.  130a-131a,  it neither  interpreted  nor
applied the second condition, that the property be "required
rangement between Amtrak and the Central Vermont Railroad.  Legisla-
tion passed while this case was pending before the Court of Appeals makes
it clear that such transactions are permissible.  Independent Safety Board
Act Amendments of 1990 § 9(a), Pub. L. 101-641, 104 Stat. 4658.

NEW PAGE

426  NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE CORP.
WHITE, J., dissenting
for intercity rail passenger service."  Instead, after reject-
ing respondent Boston & Maine Corporation's argument that
Amtrak could restore Montrealer service by obtaining track-
age rights or an  easement,  the ICC simply concluded  that
"Amtrak has demonstrated sufficient reason to justify acqui-
sition of ownership of the line."  Id., at 43a.
The majority acknowledges that "the ICC's opinion is not
explicit in all of its details," see ante, at 418, but nevertheless
concludes  that  the  Commission's  reading- of the  statute  is
entitled to deference because it "gave effect to the statutory
presumption of Amtrak's need for the track, and in so doing
implemented  and interpreted  the statute  in a manner  that
comports  with  its  words  and  structure."  Ibid.  But  this
begs  the question  of what  showing Amtrak  must make  to
establish that the track is  "required"  so that Amtrak  may
therefore obtain the benefit of the presumption of need.
The simple fact is that the ICC never addressed this point,
and therefore failed to construe a key portion of the statute.
The  omission is particularly  significant  because  this is  the
first action  treating  Amtrak's  condemnation  powers under
§ 402(d) of the Act; it will guide future adjudications.
Rather  than  acknowledging  the  ICC's  omission  and  re-
manding for clarification and factfinding, the majority relies
on  the Government's  argument that  the  Commission  must
have interpreted the word "required" as meaning "useful or
appropriate."  Ibid.  But this interpretation was not devel-
oped by the ICC during its administrative proceedings.  In-
deed,  the  explanation  was  not even  proposed  in the  Com-
mission's  argument  to  the  Court  of Appeals.2  This  ICC
2This  is how  the Commission  framed  its argument  to the  Court  of
Appeals:
"Under  Chevron [U S. A  Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council,
Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984)],  the Commission had broad discretion to inter-
pret RPSA in this proceeding.  This is certainly true with regard to the
central issu[e] of determining ...  what must be shown to justify a taking
under section 402(d)  ....  As to [this] issue, the statute merely states
that Amtrak's need for the property will be presumed unless the transfer
will significantly impair the ability of the carrier to carry out its common

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 503 U. S. 407 (1992)
WHITE, J., dissenting
definition of "required" debuted  in the Commission's  briefs
before this Court.  It is nothing more than a creation of ap-
pellate counsel, concocted to fill the gaps in the Commission's
analysis.  "The short-and  sufficient-answer  to [this] sub-
mission is that the courts may not accept appellate  counsel's
post hoc rationalizations  for agency  action.  . . .It is  well
established that an agency's  action must be upheld, if at all,
on the basis articulated by the agency itself."  Motor Vehi-
cle Mfrs. Assn., supra, at 50 (emphasis  added), citing Bur-
lington Truck Lines, Inc. v. United States, 371 U. S. 156, 168
(1962);  SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U. S. 194, 196-197 (1947);
American Textile Mfrs. Institute, Inc. v. Donovan, 452 U. S.
490, 539 (1981).  Therefore, the majority is simply wrong in
asserting  that, even  though  "the  ICC  did  not in  so  many
words articulate its interpretation of the word  'required,"'
the Court may nevertheless defer to the Commission's deci-
sion.  See ante, at 420 (emphasis added).
Because of the gap in the ICC's interpretation of the stat-
ute, "[t]here  are no findings and  no analysis here to justify
the choice made, no indication of the basis on which the Com-
mission exercised its expert discretion."  Burlington Truck
Lines, Inc., supra, at  167.  The  majority  concludes,  again
based  on the  agency's presumed  interpretation of the stat-
ute, that the Commission was not obligated to make specific
findings as to whether the property was "'required  for inter-
city rail passenger service."'  See ante, at 420.  This mag-
nifies  the  ICC's  mistake;  an  administrative  "agency  must
make findings  that support  its decision,  and those findings
must be  supported  by  substantial  evidence."  Burlington
Truck Lines, Inc., 371 U. S., at 168.
Deferring to a federal agency's  construction of the legisla-
tion that it is charged with administering is one thing.  But
deferring  to inferences  derived  from reading  between  the
lines  of an  agency  decision  or excerpted  from  the brief of
carrier obligations and Amtrak's needs can be met with alternative prop-
erty."  Joint Brief for Respondents in No. 88-1631 (CADC), pp. 15-16.

NEW PAGE

428  NATIONAL RAILROAD  PASSENGER CORPORATION v.
BOSTON & MAINE  CORP.
WHITE, J., dissenting
a Government  lawyer is another matter entirely.  "For the
courts to substitute their or counsel's discretion  for that of
the Commission is incompatible  with the orderly functioning
of the process of judicial review."  Id., at 169.  Because the
ICC has failed to provide a clear, authoritative  construction
of "required for intercity rail passenger service," we should
return this  case to the Commission so that the agency  can
do its job properly.  But we should not strain the Chevron
principle by deferring to what we imagine an agency had in
mind  when it  applied a  statute.  Therefore,  I  respectfully
dissent.

NEW PAGE