547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
28  OCTOBER TERM, 2005 
Syllabus 
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. et al. v.

INDEPENDENT INK, INC.

certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the federal circuit 
No. 04–1329.  Argued November 29, 2005—Decided March 1, 2006 
Petitioners manufacture and market printing systems that include a pat­
ented printhead and ink container and unpatented ink, which they sell 
to original equipment manufacturers who agree that they will purchase 
ink exclusively from petitioners and that neither they nor their custom­
ers will reﬁll the patented containers with ink of any kind.  Respondent 
developed ink with the same chemical composition as petitioners’ ink. 
After petitioner Trident’s infringement action was dismissed, respond­
ent ﬁled suit seeking a judgment of noninfringement and invalidity of 
Trident’s patents on the ground that petitioners are engaged in illegal 
“tying” and monopolization in violation of §§1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. 
Granting petitioners summary judgment, the District Court rejected 
respondent’s argument that petitioners necessarily have market power 
as a matter of law by virtue of the patent on their printhead system, 
thereby rendering the tying arrangements per se violations of the anti­
trust laws.  After carefully reviewing this Court’s tying-arrangements 
decisions, the Federal Circuit reversed as to the § 1 claim, concluding 
that it had to follow this Court’s precedents until overruled by this 
Court. 
Held: Because a patent does not necessarily confer market power upon 
the patentee, in all cases involving a tying arrangement, the plaintiff 
must prove that the defendant has market power in the tying product. 
Pp. 33–46. 
(a) Over the years, this Court’s strong disapproval of tying arrange­
ments has substantially diminished, as the Court has moved from rely­
ing on assumptions to requiring a showing of market power in the tying 
product.  The assumption in earlier decisions that such “arrangements 
serve  hardly  any  purpose  beyond  the  suppression  of  competition,” 
Standard Oil Co. of Cal. v. United States, 337 U. S. 293, 305–306, was 
rejected in United States Steel Corp. v. Fortner Enterprises, Inc., 429 
U. S. 610, 622 (Fortner II), and again in Jefferson Parish Hospital Dist. 
No. 2 v.  Hyde, 466 U. S. 2, both of which involved unpatented tying 
products.  Nothing in Jefferson Parish suggested a rebuttable pre­
sumption of market power applicable to tying arrangements involving a 
patent on the tying good.  Pp. 33–38. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  29 
Syllabus 
(b) The presumption that a patent confers market power arose out­
side the antitrust context as part of the patent misuse doctrine, and 
migrated to antitrust law in International Salt Co. v. United States, 332 
U. S. 392.  See also Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488; 
United States v. Loew’s Inc., 371 U. S. 38.  Pp. 38–40. 
(c) When Congress codiﬁed the patent laws for the ﬁrst time, it initi­
ated the untwining of the patent misuse doctrine and antitrust jurispru­
dence.  At the same time that this Court’s antitrust jurisprudence con­
tinued to rely on the assumption that tying arrangements generally 
serve no legitimate business purpose, Congress began chipping away at 
that assumption in the patent misuse context from whence it came. 
Then, four years after Jefferson Parish repeated the presumption that 
patents confer market power, Congress amended the Patent Code to 
eliminate it in the patent misuse context.  While that amendment does 
not expressly refer to the antitrust laws, it invites reappraisal of Inter­
national Salt’s per se rule.  After considering the congressional judg­
ment reﬂected in the amendment, this Court concludes that tying ar­
rangements involving patented products should be evaluated under the 
standards of cases like Fortner II and Jefferson Parish rather than the 
per se rule in Morton Salt and Loew’s.  Any conclusion that an arrange­
ment is unlawful must be supported by proof of power in the relevant 
market rather than by a mere presumption thereof.  Pp. 40–43. 
(d) Respondent’s alternatives to retention of the per se rule—that the 
Court endorse a rebuttable presumption that patentees possess market 
power when they condition the purchase of the patented product on an 
agreement to buy unpatented goods exclusively from the patentee, or 
differentiate between tying arrangements involving requirements ties 
and other types of tying arrangements—are rejected.  Pp. 43–46. 
(e) Because respondent reasonably relied on this Court’s prior opin­
ions in moving for summary judgment without offering evidence of the 
relevant market or proving petitioners’ power within that market, re­
spondent should be given a fair opportunity to develop and introduce 
evidence on that issue, as well as other relevant issues, when the case 
returns to the District Court.  P. 46. 
396 F. 3d 1342, vacated and remanded. 
Stevens, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other Mem­
bers joined, except Alito, J., who took no part in the consideration or 
decision of the case. 
Andrew J. Pincus argued the cause for petitioners.  With 
him on the briefs were Richard J. Favretto, Christopher J. 
Kelly, Nickolai G. Levin, and Stewart S. Hudnut. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
30  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Counsel 
Deputy Solicitor General Hungar argued the cause for 
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With 
him on the brief were Solicitor General Clement, Acting 
Assistant  Attorney  General  Barnett,  Jeffrey  P.  Minear, 
Catherine G. O’Sullivan, Steven J. Mintz, Frances Marshall, 
John M. Whealan, Cynthia C. Lynch, and Thomas Krause. 
Kathleen M. Sullivan argued the cause for respondent. 
With her on the briefs were Daniel H. Bromberg, Margret 
M. Caruso, Elizabeth B. Wydra, and Edward F. O’Connor.* 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were ﬁled for the American 
Bar Association by Robert J. Grey, Jr., Richard J. Wallis, and Kevin D. 
McDonald; for the Houston Intellectual Property Law Association by 
Kenneth E. Kuffner; for the Intellectual Property Law Association of Chi­
cago by Edward D. Manzo, Bradford P. Lyerla, and Glen P. Belvis; for 
the Intellectual Property Owners Association by Gary M. Hoffman, Ken­
neth W. Brothers, and Douglas K. Norman; for the Motion Picture Associ­
ation of America, Inc., et al. by Daniel G. Swanson, Julian W. Poon, Dan­
iel E. Robbins, and Victor S. Perlman; for the New York Intellectual 
Property Law Association by David F. Ryan; for the Patent, Trademark & 
Copyright Section of the Bar Association of the District of Columbia by 
David W. Long, Blair Elizabeth Taylor, and Lynn E. Eccleston; for Pﬁzer 
Inc. by Stephen A. Stack, Jr., George G. Gordon, Rebecca P. Dick, and 
Kent S. Bernard; for Verizon Communications by Richard G. Taranto, 
Aaron M. Panner, and John Thorne; and for the Washington Legal Foun­
dation by William C. MacLeod, Daniel J. Popeo, and David Price. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afﬁrmance were ﬁled for the District of 
Columbia et al. by Robert J. Spagnoletti, Attorney General of the District 
of Columbia, Edward E. Schwab, Deputy Attorney General, Don A. Resni­
koff, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Anika Cooper, Assistant At­
torney General, by Bill Lockyer, Attorney General of California, Richard 
M. Frank, Chief Deputy Attorney General, Tom Greene, Chief Assistant 
Attorney General, Kathleen Foote, Senior Assistant Attorney General, 
and Ann Marie Marciarille, Deputy Attorney General, and by the Attor­
neys General for their respective States as follows: Terry Goddard of Ari­
zona, Charles J. Crist, Jr., of Florida, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, Charles 
C. Foti, Jr., of Louisiana, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. 
Reilly of Massachusetts, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Jim Petro 
of Ohio, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, Dar­
rell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Patrick J. Crank of Wyoming; 
for AARP et al. by Barbara Jones, Bruce Vignery, and Michael Schuster; 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  31 
Opinion of the Court 
Justice Stevens delivered the opinion of the Court. 
In Jefferson Parish Hospital Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U. S. 
2 (1984), we repeated the well-settled proposition that “if 
the Government has granted the seller a patent or similar 
monopoly over a product, it is fair to presume that the inabil­
ity to buy the product elsewhere gives the seller market 
power.”  Id., at 16.  This presumption of market power, ap­
plicable in the antitrust context when a seller conditions its 
sale of a patented product (the “tying” product) on the pur­
chase of a second product (the “tied” product), has its founda­
tion in the judicially created patent misuse doctrine.  See 
United States v. Loew’s Inc., 371 U. S. 38, 46 (1962).  In 1988, 
Congress substantially undermined that foundation, amend­
ing the Patent Act to eliminate the market power presump­
tion in patent misuse cases.  See 102 Stat. 4676, codiﬁed at 
35 U. S. C. § 271(d).  The question presented to us today is 
whether  the  presumption  of  market  power  in  a  patented 
product should survive as a matter of antitrust law despite 
its demise in patent law.  We conclude that the mere fact 
that a tying product is patented does not support such a 
presumption. 
I 
Petitioners,  Trident,  Inc.,  and  its  parent,  Illinois  Tool 
Works Inc., manufacture and market printing systems that 
include three relevant components: (1) a patented piezoelec­
tric impulse ink jet printhead; (2) a patented ink container, 
consisting of a bottle and valved cap, which attaches to the 
printhead; and (3) specially designed, but unpatented, ink. 
for the American Antitrust Institute et al. by Jonathan Rubin; for the 
International Imaging Technology Council et al. by Patricia Judge; for 
the National Association of Theatre Owners, Inc., et al. by John T. Mitch­
ell; for Barry Nalebuff et al. by Alan I. Horowitz; and for F. M. Scherer 
by Parker C. Folse III and Justin A. Nelson. 
Patrick J. Coyne, Kenneth M. Frankel, and William C. Rooklidge ﬁled 
a brief of amicus curiae for the American Intellectual Property Law 
Association. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
32  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
Petitioners sell their systems to original equipment manufac­
turers (OEMs) who are licensed to incorporate the print­
heads and containers into printers that are in turn sold to 
companies for use in printing barcodes on cartons and pack­
aging materials.  The OEMs agree that they will purchase 
their ink exclusively from petitioners, and that neither they 
nor their customers will reﬁll the patented containers with 
ink of any kind. 
Respondent, Independent Ink, Inc., has developed an ink 
with the same chemical composition as the ink sold by peti­
tioners.  After an infringement action brought by Trident 
against Independent was dismissed for lack of personal juris­
diction,  Independent  ﬁled  suit  against  Trident  seeking  a 
judgment of noninfringement and invalidity of Trident’s pat­
ents.1  In an amended complaint, it alleged that petitioners 
are engaged in illegal tying and monopolization in violation 
of §§1 and 2 of the Sherman Act.  15 U. S. C. §§1, 2. 
After  discovery,  the  District  Court  granted  petitioners’ 
motion for summary judgment on the Sherman Act claims. 
Independent Ink, Inc. v. Trident, Inc., 210 F. Supp. 2d 1155, 
1177 (CD Cal. 2002).  It rejected respondent’s submission 
that petitioners “necessarily have market power in the mar­
ket for the tying product as a matter of law solely by virtue 
of the patent on their printhead system, thereby rendering 
[the] tying arrangements per se violations of the antitrust 
laws.”  Id., at 1159.  Finding that respondent had submit­
ted no afﬁrmative evidence deﬁning the relevant market or 
establishing petitioners’ power within it, the court concluded 
that respondent could not prevail on either antitrust claim. 
Id.,  at  1167,  1173,  1177.  The  parties  settled  their  other 
claims, and respondent appealed. 
After a careful review of the “long history of Supreme 
Court consideration of the legality of tying arrangements,” 
396 F. 3d 1342, 1346 (2005), the Court of Appeals for the 
1 Illinois Tool did not acquire Trident until February 19, 1999, approxi­
mately six months after this action commenced. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  33 
Opinion of the Court 
Federal Circuit reversed the District Court’s decision as to 
respondent’s § 1 claim, id., at 1354.  Placing special reliance 
on our decisions in International Salt Co. v. United States, 
332 U. S. 392 (1947), and Loew’s, 371 U. S. 38, as well as our 
Jefferson Parish dictum, and after taking note of the aca­
demic criticism of those cases, it concluded that the “funda­
mental error” in petitioners’ submission was its disregard of 
“the duty of a court of appeals to follow the precedents of the 
Supreme Court until the Court itself chooses to expressly 
overrule them.”  396 F. 3d, at 1351.  We granted certiorari 
to undertake a fresh examination of the history of both the 
judicial  and  legislative  appraisals  of  tying  arrangements. 
545 U. S. 1127 (2005).  Our review is informed by extensive 
scholarly comment and a change in position by the adminis­
trative agencies charged with enforcement of the antitrust 
laws. 
II 
American courts ﬁrst encountered tying arrangements in 
the  course  of  patent  infringement  litigation.  See,  e. g., 
Heaton-Peninsular  Button-Fastener  Co.  v.  Eureka  Spe­
cialty Co., 77 F. 288 (CA6 1896).  Such a case came before 
this Court in Henry v. A. B. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1 (1912), in 
which, as in the case we decide today, unpatented ink was 
the product that was “tied” to the use of a patented product 
through  the  use  of  a  licensing  agreement.  Without  com­
menting on the tying arrangement, the Court held that use 
of a competitor’s ink in violation of a condition of the agree­
ment—that the rotary mimeograph “ ‘may be used only with 
the stencil, paper, ink and other supplies made by A. B. Dick 
Co.’ ”—constituted  infringement  of  the  patent  on  the  ma­
chine.  Id.,  at  25–26.  Chief  Justice  White  dissented,  ex­
plaining  his  disagreement  with  the  Court’s  approval  of  a 
practice  that  he  regarded  as an  “attempt  to  increase  the 
scope of the monopoly granted by a patent . . . which tend[s] 
to increase monopoly and to burden the public in the exercise 
of their common rights.”  Id., at 70.  Two years later, Con­

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
34  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
gress endorsed Chief Justice White’s disapproval of tying ar­
rangements, enacting § 3 of the Clayton Act.  See 38 Stat. 
731 (applying to “patented or unpatented” products); see also 
Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co., 243 
U. S. 502, 517–518 (1917) (explaining that, in light of § 3 of 
the  Clayton  Act,  A.  B.  Dick  “must  be  regarded  as  over­
ruled”).  And in this Court’s subsequent cases reviewing the 
legality of tying arrangements we, too, embraced Chief Jus­
tice White’s disapproval of those arrangements.  See, e. g., 
Standard Oil Co. of Cal. v. United States, 337 U. S. 293, 305– 
306 (1949); Mercoid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., 
320 U. S. 661, 664–665 (1944). 
In the years since A. B. Dick, four different rules of law 
have  supported  challenges  to  tying  arrangements.  They 
have been condemned as improper extensions of the patent 
monopoly under the patent misuse doctrine, as unfair meth­
ods of competition under § 5 of the Federal Trade Commis­
sion Act, 15 U. S. C. § 45, as contracts tending to create a 
monopoly under § 3 of the Clayton Act, 15 U. S. C. § 14, and 
as contracts in restraint of trade under § 1 of the Sherman 
Act.2  In all of those instances, the justiﬁcation for the chal­
lenge rested on either an assumption or a showing that the 
defendant’s position of power in the market for the tying 
product was being used to restrain competition in the market 
for the tied product.  As we explained in Jefferson Parish, 
466 U. S., at 12, “[o]ur cases have concluded that the essential 
characteristic of an invalid tying arrangement lies in the sell­
er’s exploitation of its control over the tying product to force 
the buyer into the purchase of a tied product that the buyer 
2 See, e. g., Jefferson Parish Hospital Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 9 
(1984) (Sherman Act); Times-Picayune Publishing Co. v. United States, 
345 U. S. 594, 609 (1953) (Federal Trade Commission Act); International 
Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392, 395–396 (1947) (Clayton Act and 
Sherman Act); Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488, 494 
(1942) (patent misuse); Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. 
Co., 243 U. S. 502, 516 (1917) (same). 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  35 
Opinion of the Court 
either did not want at all, or might have preferred to pur­
chase elsewhere on different terms.” 
Over the years, however, this Court’s strong disapproval 
of tying arrangements has substantially diminished. 
Rather than relying on assumptions, in its more recent opin­
ions the Court has required a showing of market power in 
the tying product.  Our early opinions consistently assumed 
that “[t]ying arrangements serve hardly any purpose beyond 
the  suppression  of  competition.”  Standard  Oil  Co.,  337 
U. S., at 305–306.  In 1962, in Loew’s, 371 U. S., at 47–48, the 
Court relied on this assumption despite evidence of signiﬁ­
cant competition in the market for the tying product.  And 
as recently as 1969, Justice Black, writing for the majority, 
relied on the assumption as support for the proposition “that, 
at least when certain prerequisites are met, arrangements of 
this kind are illegal in and of themselves, and no speciﬁc 
showing  of  unreasonable  competitive  effect  is  required.” 
Fortner Enterprises, Inc. v. United States Steel Corp., 394 
U. S. 495, 498–499 (Fortner I).  Explaining the Court’s deci­
sion to allow the suit to proceed to trial, he stated that “deci­
sions rejecting the need for proof of truly dominant power 
over the tying product have all been based on a recognition 
that because tying arrangements generally serve no legiti­
mate business purpose that cannot be achieved in some less 
restrictive way, the presence of any appreciable restraint on 
competition provides a sufﬁcient reason for invalidating the 
tie.”  Id., at 503. 
Reﬂecting a changing view of tying arrangements, four 
Justices dissented in Fortner I, arguing that the challenged 
“tie”—the extension of a $2 million line of credit on condition 
that the borrower purchase prefabricated houses from the 
defendant—might  well  have  served  a  legitimate  purpose. 
Id., at 510 (opinion of White, J.); id., at 520 (opinion of Fortas, 
J.).  In his opinion, Justice  White noted that promotional 
tie-ins may provide “uniquely advantageous deals” to pur­
chasers.  Id., at 519.  And Justice Fortas concluded that the 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
36  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
arrangement was best characterized as “a sale of a single 
product  with  the  incidental  provision  of  ﬁnancing.”  Id., 
at 522. 
The dissenters’ view that tying arrangements may well be 
procompetitive ultimately prevailed; indeed, it did so in the 
very same lawsuit.  After the Court remanded the suit in 
Fortner I, a bench trial resulted in judgment for the plaintiff, 
and the case eventually made its way back to this Court. 
Upon return, we unanimously held that the plaintiff’s failure 
of proof on the issue of market power was fatal to its case— 
the plaintiff had proved “nothing more than a willingness to 
provide cheap ﬁnancing in order to sell expensive houses.” 
United States Steel Corp. v. Fortner Enterprises, Inc., 429 
U. S. 610, 622 (1977) (Fortner II). 
The assumption that “[t]ying arrangements serve hardly 
any  purpose  beyond  the  suppression  of  competition,”  re­
jected in Fortner II, has not been endorsed in any opinion 
since.  Instead, it was again rejected just seven years later 
in Jefferson Parish, where, as in Fortner II, we unanimously 
reversed a Court of Appeals judgment holding that an al­
leged tying arrangement constituted a per se violation of § 1 
of the Sherman Act.  466 U. S., at 5.  Like the product at 
issue in the Fortner cases, the tying product in Jefferson 
Parish—hospital services—was unpatented, and our holding 
again rested on the conclusion that the plaintiff had failed to 
prove sufﬁcient power in the tying product market to re­
strain competition in the market for the tied product—serv­
ices of anesthesiologists.  466 U. S., at 28–29. 
In rejecting the application of a per se rule that all tying 
arrangements constitute antitrust violations, we explained: 
“[W]e have condemned tying arrangements when the 
seller has some special ability—usually called ‘market 
power’—to force a purchaser to do something that he 
would not do in a competitive market. . . .  
. . . . . 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  37 
Opinion of the Court 
“Per se condemnation—condemnation without inquiry 
into actual market conditions—is only appropriate if the 
existence of forcing is  probable.  Thus, application of 
the per se rule focuses on the probability of anticompeti­
tive consequences. . . .  
“For example, if the Government has granted the seller 
a patent or similar monopoly over a product, it is fair to 
presume that the inability to buy the product elsewhere 
gives the seller market power.  United States v. Loew’s 
Inc.,  371  U. S.,  at  45–47.  Any  effort  to  enlarge  the 
scope of the patent monopoly by using the market power 
it confers to restrain competition in the market for a 
second product will undermine competition on the mer­
its in that second market.  Thus, the sale or lease of a 
patented item on condition that the buyer make all his 
purchases of a separate tied product from the patentee 
is unlawful.”  Id., at 13–16 (footnote omitted). 
Notably, nothing in our opinion suggested a rebuttable pre­
sumption of market power applicable to tying arrangements 
involving  a  patent  on  the  tying  good.  See  infra,  at  44; 
cf. 396 F. 3d, at 1352.  Instead, it described the rule that 
a contract to sell a patented product on condition that the 
purchaser buy unpatented goods exclusively from the pat­
entee is a per se violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act. 
Justice  O’Connor  wrote  separately  in  Jefferson  Parish, 
concurring in the judgment on the ground that the case did 
not involve a true tying arrangement because, in her view, 
surgical services and anesthesia were not separate products. 
466 U. S., at 43.  In her opinion, she questioned not only the 
propriety of treating any tying arrangement as a per se vio­
lation of the Sherman Act, id., at 35, but also the validity 
of the presumption that a patent always gives the patentee 
signiﬁcant market power, observing that the presumption 
was actually a product of our patent misuse cases rather than 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
38  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
our antitrust jurisprudence, id., at 37–38, n. 7.  It is that 
presumption, a vestige of the Court’s historical distrust of 
tying arrangements, that we address squarely today. 
III 
Justice O’Connor was, of course, correct in her assertion 
that the presumption that a patent confers market power 
arose outside the antitrust context as part of the patent mis­
use doctrine.  That doctrine had its origins in Motion Pic­
ture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co., 243 U. S. 502 
(1917), which found no support in the patent laws for the 
proposition  that  a  patentee  may  “prescribe  by  notice 
attached to a patented machine the conditions of its use and 
the supplies which must be used in the operation of it, under 
pain of infringement of the patent,” id., at 509.  Although 
Motion Picture Patents Co. simply narrowed the scope of 
possible patent infringement claims, it formed the basis for 
the Court’s subsequent decisions creating a patent misuse 
defense to infringement claims when a patentee uses its pat­
ent “as the effective means of restraining competition with 
its sale of an unpatented article.”  Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. 
Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488, 490 (1942); see also, e. g., Carbice 
Corp. of America v. American Patents Development Corp., 
283 U. S. 27, 31 (1931). 
Without any analysis of actual market conditions, these 
patent misuse decisions assumed that, by tying the purchase 
of unpatented goods to the sale of the patented good, the 
patentee was  “restraining competition,”  Morton Salt, 314 
U. S., at 490, or “secur[ing] a limited monopoly of an unpat­
ented material,” Mercoid, 320 U. S., at 664; see also Carbice, 
283 U. S., at 31–32.  In other words, these decisions pre­
sumed “[t]he requisite economic power” over the tying prod­
uct such that the patentee could “extend [its] economic con­
trol to unpatented products.”  Loew’s, 371 U. S., at 45–46. 
The presumption that a patent confers market power mi­
grated from patent law to antitrust law in International 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  39 
Opinion of the Court 
Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392 (1947).  In that case, 
we afﬁrmed a District Court decision holding that leases of 
patented machines requiring the lessees to use the defend­
ant’s unpatented salt products violated § 1 of the Sherman 
Act and § 3 of the Clayton Act as a matter of law.  Id., at 
396.  Although the Court’s opinion does not discuss market 
power or the patent misuse doctrine, it assumes that “[t]he 
volume of business affected by these contracts cannot be said 
to be insigniﬁcant or insubstantial and the tendency of the 
arrangement  to  accomplishment  of  monopoly  seems  obvi­
ous.”  Ibid. 
The assumption that tying contracts “ten[d] . . . to  accom­
plishment of monopoly” can be traced to the Government’s 
brief in International Salt, which relied heavily on our ear­
lier patent misuse decision in Morton Salt.  The Govern­
ment described Morton Salt as “present[ing] a factual situa­
tion almost identical with the instant case,” and it asserted 
that “although the Court in that case did not ﬁnd it necessary 
to decide whether the antitrust laws were violated, its lan­
guage, its reasoning, and its citations indicate that the policy 
underlying the decision was the same as that of the Sherman 
Act.”  Brief for United States in International Salt Co. v. 
United States, O. T. 1947, No. 46, p. 19 (United States Brief). 
Building on its assertion that International Salt was logi­
cally indistinguishable from Morton Salt, the Government 
argued that this Court should place tying arrangements in­
volving patented products in the category of per se violations 
of the Sherman Act.  United States Brief 26–33. 
Our opinion in International Salt clearly shows that we 
accepted the Government’s invitation to import the presump­
tion of market power in a patented product into our antitrust 
jurisprudence.  While  we  cited  Morton Salt only  for  the 
narrower proposition that the defendant’s patents did not 
confer any right to restrain competition in unpatented salt or 
afford the defendant any immunity from the antitrust laws, 
International Salt, 332 U. S., at 395–396, given the fact that 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
40  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
the defendant was selling its unpatented salt at competitive 
prices, id., at 396–397, the rule adopted in International 
Salt necessarily accepted the Government’s submission that 
the earlier patent misuse cases supported the broader propo­
sition “that this type of restraint is unlawful on its face under 
the Sherman Act,” United States Brief 12. 
Indeed, later in the same Term we cited International 
Salt for the proposition that the license of “a patented device 
on condition that unpatented materials be employed in con­
junction with the patented device” is an example of a re­
straint that is “illegal per se.”  United States v. Columbia 
Steel Co., 334 U. S. 495, 522–523, and n. 22 (1948).  And in 
subsequent cases we have repeatedly grounded the presump­
tion of market power over a patented device in Interna­
tional Salt.  See, e. g., Loew’s, 371 U. S., at 45–46; Times-
Picayune Publishing Co. v. United States, 345 U. S. 594, 608 
(1953); Standard Oil Co., 337 U. S., at 304. 
IV 
Although the patent misuse doctrine and our antitrust ju­
risprudence became intertwined in International Salt, sub­
sequent events initiated their untwining.  This process has 
ultimately led to today’s reexamination of the presumption of 
per se illegality of a tying arrangement involving a patented 
product, the ﬁrst case since 1947 in which we have granted 
review to consider the presumption’s continuing validity. 
Three years before we decided International Salt, this 
Court had expanded the scope of the patent misuse doctrine 
to include not only supplies or materials used by a patented 
device, but also tying arrangements involving a combination 
patent and “unpatented material or [a] device [that] is itself 
an  integral  part  of  the  structure  embodying  the  patent.” 
Mercoid, 320 U. S., at 665; see also Dawson Chemical Co. v. 
Rohm & Haas Co., 448 U. S. 176, 188–198 (1980) (describing 
in detail Mercoid and the cases leading up to it).  In reach­
ing this conclusion, the Court explained that it could see “no 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  41 
Opinion of the Court 
difference in principle” between cases involving elements es­
sential to the inventive character of the patent and elements 
peripheral to it; both, in the Court’s view, were attempts 
to “expan[d] the patent beyond the legitimate scope of its 
monopoly.”  Mercoid, 320 U. S., at 665. 
Shortly thereafter, Congress codiﬁed the patent laws for 
the ﬁrst time.  See 66 Stat. 792, codiﬁed at 35 U. S. C. § 1 
et seq. (2000 ed. and Supp. III).  At least partly in response 
to our Mercoid decision, Congress included a provision in 
its codiﬁcation that excluded some conduct, such as a tying 
arrangement involving the sale of a patented product tied to 
an “essential” or “nonstaple” product that has no use except 
as part of the patented product or method, from the scope of 
the patent misuse doctrine.  § 271(d); see also Dawson, 448 
U. S., at 214.  Thus, at the same time that our antitrust ju­
risprudence continued to rely on the assumption that “tying 
arrangements generally serve no legitimate business pur­
pose,” Fortner I, 394 U. S., at 503, Congress began chipping 
away at the assumption in the patent misuse context from 
whence it came. 
It is Congress’ most recent narrowing of the patent misuse 
defense, however, that is directly relevant to this case.  Four 
years after our decision in Jefferson Parish repeated the 
patent-equals-market-power  presumption,  466 U. S.,  at  16, 
Congress amended the Patent Code to eliminate that pre­
sumption in the patent misuse context, 102 Stat. 4676.  The 
relevant provision reads: 
“(d) No patent owner otherwise entitled to relief for 
infringement or contributory infringement of a patent 
shall be denied relief or deemed guilty of misuse or ille­
gal extension of the patent right by reason of his having 
done one or more of the following: . . . (5) conditioned 
the license of any rights to the patent or the sale of the 
patented product on the acquisition of a license to rights 
in another patent or purchase of a separate product, un­
less, in view of the circumstances, the patent owner has 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
42  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
market power in the relevant market for the patent or 
patented product on which the license or sale is condi­
tioned.”  35 U. S. C. § 271(d)(5) (emphasis added). 
The italicized clause makes it clear that Congress did not 
intend the mere existence of a patent to constitute the requi­
site “market power.”  Indeed, fairly read, it provides that 
without proof that Trident had market power in the relevant 
market, its conduct at issue in this case was neither “misuse” 
nor an “illegal extension of the patent right.” 
While the 1988 amendment does not expressly refer to the 
antitrust laws, it certainly invites a reappraisal of the per se 
rule announced in International Salt.3  A rule denying a 
patentee the right to enjoin an infringer is signiﬁcantly less 
severe than a rule that makes the conduct at issue a federal 
crime punishable by up to 10 years in prison.  See 15 U. S. C. 
§ 1.  It would be absurd to assume that Congress intended 
to provide that the use of a patent that merited punishment 
as a felony would not constitute “misuse.”  Moreover, given 
the fact that the patent misuse doctrine provided the basis 
for the market power presumption, it would be anomalous 
to  preserve  the  presumption  in  antitrust  after  Congress 
has  eliminated its foundation.  Cf.  10 P. Areeda, H. 
Hovenkamp, & E. Elhauge, Antitrust Law ¶ 1737c (2d ed. 
2004) (hereinafter Areeda). 
After considering the congressional judgment reﬂected in 
the 1988 amendment, we conclude that tying arrangements 
involving patented products should be evaluated under the 
standards applied in cases like Fortner II and Jefferson Par­
ish rather than under the per se rule applied in Morton Salt 
and Loew’s.  While some such arrangements are still unlaw­
3 While our opinions have made clear that such an invitation is not neces­
sary with respect to cases arising under the Sherman Act, see State Oil 
Co. v. Khan, 522 U. S. 3, 20 (1997), it is certainly sufﬁcient to warrant 
reevaluation of our precedent, id., at 21 (“[T]his Court has reconsidered 
its decisions construing the Sherman Act when the theoretical underpin­
nings of those decisions are called into serious question”). 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  43 
Opinion of the Court 
ful, such as those that are the product of a true monopoly or 
a marketwide conspiracy, see, e. g., United States v.  Para­
mount Pictures, Inc., 334 U. S. 131, 145–146 (1948), that con­
clusion must be supported by proof of power in the relevant 
market rather than by a mere presumption thereof.4 
V 
Rather than arguing that we should retain the rule of per 
se  illegality,  respondent  contends  that  we  should  endorse 
a  rebuttable  presumption  that  patentees  possess  market 
power  when  they  condition  the  purchase  of  the  patented 
product on an agreement to buy unpatented goods exclu­
sively from the patentee.  Cf. supra, at 37–38.  Respondent 
recognizes that a large number of valid patents have little, 
if any, commercial signiﬁcance, but submits that those that 
are used to impose tying arrangements on unwilling purchas­
ers likely do exert signiﬁcant market power.  Hence, in re­
spondent’s view, the presumption would have no impact on 
patents of only slight value and would be justiﬁed, subject 
to being rebutted by evidence offered by the patentee, in 
cases in which the patent has sufﬁcient value to enable the 
patentee to insist on acceptance of the tie. 
Respondent also offers a narrower alternative, suggesting 
that we differentiate between tying arrangements involving 
the simultaneous purchase of two products that are arguably 
two components of a single product—such as the provision of 
4 Our imposition of this requirement accords with the vast majority of 
academic literature on the subject.  See, e. g., 10 Areeda ¶ 1737a (“[T]here 
is no economic basis for inferring any amount of market power from the 
mere fact that the defendant holds a valid patent”); Burchﬁel, Patent Mis­
use and Antitrust Reform: “Blessed be the Tie?” 4 Harv. J. L. & Tech. 1, 
57, and n. 340 (1991) (noting that the market power presumption has been 
extensively criticized and citing sources); 1 H. Hovenkamp, M. Janis, & M. 
Lemley, IP and Antitrust § 4.2a (2005 Supp.) (“[C]overage of one’s product 
with  an  intellectual  property  right  does  not  confer  a  monopoly”); 
W. Landes & R. Posner, The Economic Structure of Intellectual Property 
Law 374 (2003) (hereinafter Landes & Posner). 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
44  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
surgical services and anesthesiology in the same operation, 
Jefferson Parish, 466 U. S., at 43 (O’Connor, J., concurring in 
judgment), or the licensing of one copyrighted ﬁlm on condi­
tion that the licensee take a package of several ﬁlms in the 
same transaction, Loew’s, 371 U. S. 38—and a tying arrange­
ment involving the purchase of unpatented goods over a pe­
riod of time, a so-called “requirements tie.”  See also Brief 
for Barry Nalebuff et al. as Amici Curiae.  According to 
respondent, we should recognize a presumption of market 
power when faced with the latter type of arrangements be­
cause they provide a means for charging large volume pur­
chasers a higher royalty for use of the patent than small 
purchasers must pay, a form of discrimination that “is strong 
evidence of market power.”  Brief for Respondent 27; see 
generally Jefferson Parish, 466 U. S., at 15, n. 23 (discussing 
price discrimination of this sort and citing sources). 
The  opinion  that  imported  the  “patent  equals  market 
power” presumption into our antitrust jurisprudence, how­
ever, provides no support for respondent’s proposed alter­
native.  In International Salt, it was the existence of the 
patent on the tying product, rather than the use of a require­
ments tie, that led the Court to presume market power.  332 
U. S., at 395 (“The appellant’s patents confer a limited mo­
nopoly of the invention they reward”).  Moreover, the re­
quirements tie in that case did not involve any price discrimi­
nation between large volume and small volume purchasers 
or evidence of noncompetitive pricing.  Instead, the leases 
at issue provided that if any competitor offered salt, the tied 
product, at a lower price, “the lessee should be free to buy 
in the open market, unless appellant would furnish the salt 
at an equal price.”  Id., at 396. 
As we have already noted, the vast majority of academic 
literature recognizes that a patent does not necessarily con­
fer market power.  See n. 4, supra.  Similarly, while price 
discrimination may provide evidence of market power, par­
ticularly  if  buttressed  by  evidence  that  the  patentee  has 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 547 U. S. 28 (2006)  45 
Opinion of the Court 
charged an above-market price for the tied package, see, e. g., 
10 Areeda ¶ 1769c, it is generally recognized that it also oc­
curs in fully competitive markets, see, e. g., Baumol & Swan­
son, The New Economy and Ubiquitous Competitive Price 
Discrimination:  Identifying  Defensible  Criteria  of  Market 
Power, 70 Antitrust L. J. 661, 666 (2003); 9 Areeda ¶ 1711; 
Landes & Posner 374–375.  We are not persuaded that the 
combination of these two factors should give rise to a pre­
sumption of market power when neither is sufﬁcient to do 
so standing alone.  Rather, the lesson to be learned from 
International  Salt  and  the  academic  commentary  is  the 
same: Many tying arrangements, even those involving pat­
ents and requirements ties, are fully consistent with a free, 
competitive  market.  For  this  reason,  we  reject  both  re­
spondent’s proposed rebuttable presumption and their nar­
rower alternative. 
It is no doubt the virtual consensus among economists that 
has persuaded the enforcement agencies to reject the posi­
tion that the Government took when it supported the per se 
rule that the Court adopted in the 1940’s.  See supra, at 39. 
In antitrust guidelines issued jointly by the Department of 
Justice and the Federal Trade Commission in 1995, the en­
forcement agencies stated that in the exercise of their prose­
cutorial  discretion  they  “will  not  presume  that  a  patent, 
copyright, or trade secret necessarily confers market power 
upon its owner.”  U. S. Dept. of Justice and FTC, Antitrust 
Guidelines for the Licensing of Intellectual Property § 2.2 
(Apr. 6, 1995), http://www.usdoj.gov/atr/public/guidelines/ 
0558.pdf (as visited Feb. 24, 2006, and available in Clerk of 
Court’s case ﬁle).  While that choice is not binding on the 
Court, it would be unusual for the Judiciary to replace the 
normal rule of lenity that is applied in criminal cases with a 
rule of severity for a special category of antitrust cases. 
Congress, the antitrust enforcement agencies, and most 
economists have all reached the conclusion that a patent does 
not  necessarily  confer  market  power  upon  the  patentee. 

NEW PAGE

547US1 Unit:$U38 [03-16-0914:11:53] PAGES PGT:OPIN
46  ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. v. INDEPENDENT INK, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
Today, we reach the same conclusion, and therefore hold that, 
in all cases involving a tying arrangement, the plaintiff must 
prove  that  the  defendant  has  market  power  in  the  tying 
product. 
VI 
In  this  case,  respondent  reasonably relied  on  our  prior 
opinions in moving for summary judgment without offering 
evidence deﬁning the relevant market or proving that peti­
tioners possess power within it.  When the case returns to 
the District Court, respondent should therefore be given a 
fair opportunity to develop and introduce evidence on that 
issue, as well as any other issues that are relevant to its 
remaining  § 1  claims.  Accordingly,  the  judgment  of  the 
Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded for 
further proceedings consistent with this opinion. 
It is so ordered. 
Justice Alito took no part in the consideration or deci­
sion of this case. 

NEW PAGE