546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
394  OCTOBER TERM, 2005 
Syllabus 
UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. SWIFT-

ECKRICH, INC., dba CONAGRA

REFRIGERATED FOODS

certiorari to the united states court of appeals for 
the federal circuit 
No. 04–597.  Argued November 2, 2005—Decided January 23, 2006 
After respondent ConAgra warned companies selling equipment and proc­
esses for browning precooked meats that it intended to protect its rights 
under its patent for that process, petitioner Unitherm, whose president 
had invented the process six years before ConAgra ﬁled its patent appli­
cation, and one of ConAgra’s direct competitors jointly ﬁled suit in an 
Oklahoma federal court.  As relevant here, they sought a declaration 
that ConAgra’s patent was invalid and unenforceable and alleged that 
ConAgra had violated § 2 of the Sherman Act by attempting to enforce 
a patent obtained by fraud on the Patent and Trademark Ofﬁce, see 
Walker Process Equipment, Inc. v. Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 
382 U. S. 172, 174.  The District Court found the patent invalid and 
allowed the Walker Process claim to proceed to trial.  Before the case 
was submitted to the jury, ConAgra moved for a directed verdict under 
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a) based on legal insufﬁciency of the 
evidence.  The court denied the motion, the jury returned a verdict for 
Unitherm, and ConAgra neither renewed its motion for judgment as a 
matter of law pursuant to Rule 50(b) nor moved for a new trial on anti­
trust liability pursuant to Rule 59.  On appeal to the Federal Circuit, 
ConAgra maintained that there was insufﬁcient evidence to sustain the 
Walker Process verdict.  The court applied Tenth Circuit law, under 
which a party that has failed to ﬁle a postverdict sufﬁciency of the evi­
dence challenge may nonetheless raise such a claim on appeal, so long 
as the party ﬁled a Rule 50(a) motion before submission of the case to 
the jury.  The only available relief in such a circumstance is a new trial. 
Freed to examine the sufﬁciency of the evidence, the Federal Circuit 
vacated the judgment and ordered a new trial. 
Held: Since respondent failed to renew its preverdict motion as speciﬁed 
in Rule 50(b), the Federal Circuit had no basis for reviewing respond­
ent’s sufﬁciency of the evidence challenge.  Rule 50 sets forth the re­
quirements, establishing two stages, for challenging the sufﬁciency of 
the evidence in a civil jury trial.  Rule 50(a) allows a challenge prior to 
the case’s submission to the jury, authorizing the district court to grant 
the motion at the court’s discretion.  Rule 50(b), by contrast, sets forth 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  395 
Syllabus 
the requirements for renewing the challenge after the jury verdict and 
entry of judgment.  A party’s failure to ﬁle a Rule 50(b) postverdict 
motion deprives an appellate court of the “power to direct the District 
Court to enter judgment contrary to the one it had permitted to stand.” 
Cone v. West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., 330 U. S. 212, 218.  It also 
deprives an appellate court of the power to order the entry of judgment 
in favor of that party where the district court directed the jury’s verdict, 
Globe Liquor Co. v. San Roman, 332 U. S. 571, and where the district 
court expressly reserved a party’s preverdict directed verdict motion 
and then denied it after the verdict, Johnson v. New York, N. H. & H. R. 
Co., 344 U. S. 48.  A postverdict motion is necessary because determin­
ing “whether a new trial should be granted or a judgment entered under 
Rule 50(b) calls for the judgment in the ﬁrst instance of the judge who 
saw and heard the witnesses and has the feel of the case which no appel­
late printed transcript can impart.”  Cone, supra, at 216.  Moreover, 
the requirement “is not an idle motion” but “an essential part of the 
rule, ﬁrmly grounded in principles of fairness.”  Johnson, supra, at 53. 
These authorities require reversal of the judgment below.  This Court’s 
observations about the postverdict motion’s necessity and the beneﬁts 
of the district court’s input at that stage apply with equal force whether 
a party is seeking judgment as a matter of law or simply a new trial. 
Contrary to respondent’s argument, the Cone, Globe Liquor, and John­
son outcomes underscore this holding.  Those litigants all secured new 
trials, but they had moved for a new trial postverdict in the district 
court and did not seek to establish their entitlement to a new trial based 
solely on a denied Rule 50(a) motion.  This result is further validated 
by the purported basis of respondent’s appeal, namely, the District 
Court’s denial of its Rule 50(a) motion.  Cone, Globe Liquor, and John­
son unequivocally establish that the precise subject matter of a party’s 
Rule 50(a) motion cannot be appealed unless that motion is renewed 
pursuant to Rule 50(b).  Respondent, rather than seeking to appeal the 
claim raised in its Rule 50(a) motion, seeks a new trial based on legal 
insufﬁciency of the evidence.  If a litigant that has failed to ﬁle a Rule 
50(b) motion is foreclosed from seeking the relief sought in its Rule 50(a) 
motion, then surely respondent is foreclosed from seeking relief it did 
not and could not seek in its preverdict motion.  Rule 50(b)’s text con­
ﬁrms that respondent’s Rule 50(a) motion did not give the District Court 
the option of ordering a new trial, for it provides that a district court 
may only order a new trial based on issues raised in a Rule 50(a) motion 
when “ruling on a renewed motion” under Rule 50(b).  If the District 
Court lacked such power, then the Court of Appeals was similarly pow­
erless.  Rule 50(a)’s text and application also support this result.  A 
district court may enter judgment as a matter of law when it concludes 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
396  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
that the evidence is legally insufﬁcient, but it is not required to do so. 
Thus, the denial of respondent’s Rule 50(a) motion was not error, but 
merely an exercise of the District Court’s discretion.  Pp. 399–407. 
375 F. 3d 1341, reversed. 
Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts, C. J., 
and O’Connor, Scalia, Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined. 
Stevens, J., ﬁled a dissenting opinion, in which Kennedy, J., joined, 
post, p. 407. 
Burck Bailey argued the cause for petitioner.  With him 
on the briefs were Greg A. Castro, Jay P. Walters, and Den­
nis D. Brown. 
Malcolm  L.  Stewart  argued  the  cause  for  the  United 
States as amicus curiae urging reversal.  With him on the 
brief were Solicitor General Clement, Assistant Attorney 
General Keisler, Deputy Solicitor  General Hungar, Mar­
leigh Dover, and August Flentje. 
Robert  A.  Schroeder  argued  the  cause  for  respondent. 
With him on the briefs were John R. Reese, Leigh Otsuka 
Curran, and John P. Passarelli. 
Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court. 
Ordinarily, a party in a civil jury trial that believes the 
evidence is legally insufﬁcient to support an adverse jury 
verdict will seek a judgment as a matter of law by ﬁling a 
motion pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a) 
before submission of the case to the jury, and then (if the 
Rule 50(a) motion is not granted and the jury subsequently 
decides against that party) a motion pursuant to Rule 50(b). 
In this case, however, the respondent ﬁled a Rule 50(a) mo­
tion before the verdict, but did not ﬁle a Rule 50(b) motion 
after the verdict.  Nor did respondent request a new trial 
under  Rule  59.  The  Court  of  Appeals  nevertheless  pro­
ceeded to review the sufﬁciency of the evidence and, upon a 
ﬁnding that the evidence was insufﬁcient, remanded the case 
for a new trial.  Because our cases addressing the require­
ments of Rule 50 compel a contrary result, we reverse. 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  397 
Opinion of the Court 
I 
The genesis of the underlying litigation in this case was 
ConAgra’s attempt to enforce its patent for “A Method for 
Browning Precooked Whole Muscle Meat Products,” U. S. 
Patent No. 5,952,027 (’027 patent).  In early 2000, ConAgra 
issued a general warning to companies who sold equipment 
and processes for browning precooked meats explaining that 
it intended to “ ‘aggressively protect all of [its] rights under 
[the ’027] patent.’ ”  375 F. 3d 1341, 1344 (CA Fed. 2004). 
Petitioner Unitherm sold such processes, but did not receive 
ConAgra’s warning.  ConAgra also contacted its direct com­
petitors in the precooked meat business, announcing that it 
was “ ‘making the ’027 Patent and corresponding patents that 
may issue available for license at a royalty rate of 10¢ per 
pound.’ ”  Id.,  at  1345.  Jennie-O,  a direct  competitor,  re­
ceived ConAgra’s correspondence and undertook an inves­
tigation  to  determine  its  rights  and  responsibilities  with 
regard  to  the  ’027  patent.  Jennie-O  determined  that  the 
browning process it had purchased from Unitherm was the 
same as the process described in the ’027 patent.  Jennie-O 
further determined that the ’027 patent was invalid because 
Unitherm’s  president  had  invented  the  process  described 
in  that  patent  six  years  before  ConAgra  ﬁled  its  patent 
application. 
Consistent with these determinations, Jennie-O and Uni­
therm jointly sued ConAgra in the Western District of Okla­
homa.  As relevant here, Jennie-O and Unitherm sought a 
declaration that the ’027 patent was invalid and unenforce­
able, and alleged that ConAgra had violated § 2 of the Sher­
man Act, ch. 647, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 2, by 
attempting to enforce a patent that was obtained by commit­
ting fraud on the Patent and Trademark Ofﬁce (PTO).  See 
Walker  Process  Equipment,  Inc.  v.  Food  Machinery  & 
Chemical Corp., 382 U. S. 172, 174 (1965) (holding that “the 
enforcement of a patent procured by fraud on the Patent 
Ofﬁce may be violative of § 2 of the Sherman Act provided 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
398  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
the  other  elements  necessary  to  a  § 2  case  are  present”). 
The District Court construed the ’027 patent and determined 
that it was invalid based on Unitherm’s prior public use and 
sale of the process described therein.  35 U. S. C. § 102(b). 
After dismissing Jennie-O for lack of antitrust standing, the 
District Court allowed Unitherm’s Walker Process claim to 
proceed to trial.  Prior to the court’s submission of the case 
to the jury, ConAgra moved for a directed verdict under 
Rule 50(a) based on legal insufﬁciency of the evidence.  The 
District Court denied that motion.1  The jury returned a 
verdict for Unitherm, and ConAgra neither renewed its mo­
tion for judgment as a matter of law pursuant to Rule 50(b), 
nor moved for a new trial on antitrust liability pursuant to 
Rule 59.2 
On  appeal  to  the  Federal  Circuit,  ConAgra  maintained 
that  there  was  insufﬁcient  evidence  to  sustain  the  jury’s 
Walker Process verdict.  Although the Federal Circuit has 
concluded that a party’s “failure to present the district court 
with a post-verdict motion precludes appellate review of suf­
ﬁciency of the evidence,” Biodex Corp. v. Loredan Biomedi­
cal, Inc., 946 F. 2d 850, 862 (1991), in the instant case it was 
bound to apply the law of the Tenth Circuit, 375 F. 3d, at 
1365, n. 7 (“On most issues related to Rule 50 motions . . . 
we generally apply regional circuit law unless the precise 
1 Petitioner contends that respondent’s Rule 50(a) motion pertained only 
to the fraud element of petitioner’s Walker Process claim, and that it did 
not encompass the remaining antitrust elements of that claim.  Because 
we conclude that petitioner is entitled to prevail irrespective of the scope 
of respondent’s Rule 50(a) motion, we assume without deciding that that 
motion pertained to all aspects of petitioner’s § 2 claim.  But see Amend­
ments to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 134 F. R. D. 525, 687 (1991) 
(“A post-trial motion for judgment can be granted only on grounds ad­
vanced in the pre-verdict motion”). 
2 While ConAgra did ﬁle a postverdict motion seeking a new trial on 
antitrust damages, that motion did not seek to challenge the sufﬁciency of 
the evidence establishing antitrust liability and thus has no bearing on the 
instant case. 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  399 
Opinion of the Court 
issue  being  appealed  pertains  uniquely  to  patent  law”). 
Under Tenth Circuit law, a party that has failed to ﬁle a 
postverdict  motion  challenging  the  sufﬁciency  of  the  evi­
dence may nonetheless raise such a claim on appeal, so long 
as that party ﬁled a Rule 50(a) motion prior to submission of 
the case to the jury.  Cummings v. General Motors Corp., 
365 F. 3d 944, 950–951 (2004).  Notably, the only available 
relief in such a circumstance is a new trial.  Id., at 951. 
Freed to examine the sufﬁciency of the evidence, the Fed­
eral  Circuit  concluded  that,  although  Unitherm  had  pre­
sented sufﬁcient evidence to support a determination that 
ConAgra had attempted to enforce a patent that it had ob­
tained through fraud on the PTO, 375 F. 3d, at 1362, Uni­
therm had failed to present evidence sufﬁcient to support 
the remaining elements of its antitrust claim.  Id., at 1365 
(“Unitherm failed to present any economic evidence capable 
of  sustaining  its  asserted  relevant  antitrust  market,  and 
little to support any other aspect of its Section 2 claim”). 
Accordingly, it vacated the jury’s judgment in favor of Uni­
therm and remanded for a new trial.  We granted certiorari, 
543 U. S. 1186 (2005), and now reverse. 
II 
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50 sets forth the proce­
dural requirements for challenging the sufﬁciency of the evi­
dence in a civil jury trial and establishes two stages for such 
challenges—prior to submission of the case to the jury, and 
after the verdict and entry of judgment.  Rule 50(a) allows 
a party to challenge the sufﬁciency of the evidence prior to 
submission of the case to the jury, and authorizes the district 
court to grant such motions at the court’s discretion: 
“(a) Judgment as a Matter of Law. 
“(1) If during a trial by jury a party has been fully 
heard on an issue and there is no legally sufﬁcient evi­
dentiary basis for a reasonable jury to ﬁnd for that party 
on that issue, the court may determine the issue against 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
400  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
that party and may grant a motion for judgment as a 
matter of law against that party with respect to a claim 
or  defense  that  cannot  under  the  controlling  law  be 
maintained or defeated without a favorable ﬁnding on 
that issue. 
“(2) Motions for judgment as a matter of law may be 
made at any time before submission of the case to the 
jury.  Such a motion shall specify the judgment sought 
and the law and the facts on which the moving party is 
entitled to the judgment.” 
Rule 50(b), by contrast, sets forth the procedural require­
ments for renewing a sufﬁciency of the evidence challenge 
after the jury verdict and entry of judgment. 
“(b)  Renewing Motion for Judgment After 
Trial; Alternative Motion for New Trial.  If, for 
any reason, the court does not grant a motion for judg­
ment as a matter of law made at the close of all the 
evidence, the court is considered to have submitted the 
action to the jury subject to the court’s later deciding 
the legal questions raised by the motion.  The movant 
may renew its request for judgment as a matter of law 
by ﬁling a motion no later than 10 days after entry of 
judgment—and may alternatively request a new trial or 
join a motion for a new trial under Rule 59.  In ruling 
on a renewed motion, the court may: 
“(1) if a verdict was returned:

“(A) allow the judgment to stand,

“(B) order a new trial, or

“(C) direct entry of judgment as a matter of

law  . . . .”  
This Court has addressed the implications of a party’s fail­
ure to ﬁle a postverdict motion under Rule 50(b) on several 
occasions  and  in  a  variety  of  procedural  contexts.  This 
Court has concluded that, “[i]n the absence of such a motion” 
an “appellate court [is] without power to direct the District 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  401 
Opinion of the Court 
Court to enter judgment contrary to the one it had permitted 
to stand.”  Cone  v.  West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., 330 
U. S. 212, 218 (1947).  This Court has similarly concluded 
that a party’s failure to ﬁle a Rule 50(b) motion deprives the 
appellate court of the power to order the entry of judgment 
in favor of that party where the district court directed the 
jury’s verdict, Globe Liquor Co. v. San Roman, 332 U. S. 571 
(1948), and where the district court expressly reserved a par­
ty’s preverdict motion for a directed verdict and then denied 
that motion after the verdict was returned, Johnson v. New 
York,  N.  H. &  H. R. Co.,  344 U. S. 48 (1952).  A postverdict 
motion is necessary because “[d]etermination of whether a 
new trial should be granted or a judgment entered under 
Rule 50(b) calls for the judgment in the ﬁrst instance of the 
judge who saw and heard the witnesses and has the feel of 
the case which no appellate printed transcript can impart.” 3 
Cone, supra, at 216.  Moreover, the “requirement of a timely 
application for judgment after verdict is not an idle motion” 
because  it  “is  .  .  .  an  essential  part  of  the  rule,  ﬁrmly 
grounded in principles of fairness.”  Johnson, supra, at 53. 
The foregoing authorities lead us to reverse the judgment 
below.  Respondent correctly points out that these authori­
ties address whether an appellate court may enter judgment 
in the absence of a postverdict motion, as opposed to whether 
an appellate court may order a new trial (as the Federal Cir­
3 Neither Neely v. Martin K. Eby Constr. Co., 386 U. S. 317 (1967), nor 
Weisgram v. Marley Co., 528 U. S. 440 (2000), undermine our judgment 
about the beneﬁt of postverdict input from the district court.  In those 
cases this Court determined that an appellate court may, in certain cir­
cumstances, direct the entry of judgment when it reverses the district 
court’s denial of a Rule 50(b) motion.  But in such circumstances the dis­
trict court will have had an opportunity to consider the propriety of enter­
ing judgment or ordering a new trial by virtue of the postverdict motion. 
Moreover, these cases reiterate the value of the district court’s input, cau­
tioning the courts of appeals to be “ ‘constantly alert’ to ‘the trial judge’s 
ﬁrst-hand knowledge of witnesses, testimony, and issues.’”  Id., at 443 
(quoting Neely, supra, at 325). 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
402  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
cuit  did  here).  But  this  distinction  is  immaterial.  This 
Court’s observations about the necessity of a postverdict mo­
tion under Rule 50(b), and the beneﬁts of the district court’s 
input at that stage, apply with equal force whether a party 
is seeking judgment as a matter of law or simply a new trial. 
In Cone, this Court concluded that, because Rule 50(b) per­
mits the district court to exercise its discretion to choose 
between ordering a new trial and entering judgment, its “ap­
praisal of the bona ﬁdes of the claims asserted by the liti­
gants is of great value in reaching a conclusion as to whether 
a new trial should be granted.”  330 U. S., at 216 (emphasis 
added).  Similarly, this Court has determined that a party 
may only pursue on appeal a particular avenue of relief avail­
able under Rule 50(b), namely, the entry of judgment or a 
new trial, when that party has complied with the Rule’s ﬁl­
ing requirements by requesting that particular relief below. 
See Johnson, supra, at 54 (“Respondent made a motion to 
set aside the verdict and for new trial within the time re­
quired by Rule 50(b).  It failed to comply with permission 
given by 50(b) to move for judgment n. o. v. after the verdict. 
In this situation respondent is entitled only to a new trial, 
not to a judgment in its favor”).4 
4 The dissent’s suggestion that 28 U. S. C. § 2106 permits the courts of 
appeals to consider the sufﬁciency of the evidence underlying a civil jury 
verdict notwithstanding a party’s failure to comply with Rule 50 is fore­
closed by authority of this Court.  While the dissent observes that § 2106 
was enacted after Cone and Globe Liquor Co. v. San Roman, 332 U. S. 571 
(1948), post, at 408 (opinion of Stevens, J.), it fails to note that it was 
enacted prior to Johnson.  Johnson explicitly reafﬁrmed those earlier 
cases, concluding that “in the absence of a motion for judgment notwith­
standing the verdict made in the trial court within ten days after recep­
tion of a verdict [Rule 50] forbids the trial judge or an appellate court to 
enter such a judgment.”  344 U. S., at 50.  Moreover, in Neely, this Court 
observed that § 2106 is “broad enough to include the power to direct entry 
of judgment n. o. v. on appeal,” 386 U. S., at 322, but nonetheless reaf­
ﬁrmed that Cone, Globe Liquor, and Johnson “make it clear that an appel­
late  court  may  not  order  judgment  n.  o.  v.  where  the  verdict  loser 
has failed strictly to comply with the procedural requirements of Rule 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  403 
Opinion of the Court 
Despite the straightforward language employed in Cone, 
Globe Liquor, and Johnson, respondent maintains that those 
cases dictate afﬁrmance here, because in each of those cases 
the litigants secured a new trial.  But in each of those cases 
the appellants moved for a new trial postverdict in the Dis­
trict Court, and did not seek to establish their entitlement 
to a  new trial  solely on  the basis  of a  denied Rule  50(a) 
motion.  See Cone, supra, at 213 (noting that respondent 
moved for a new trial); 5 Globe Liquor, supra, at 572 (“The 
50(b),” 386 U. S., at 325.  Contrary to the dissent’s suggestion, Neely con­
ﬁrms that the broad grant of authority to the courts of appeals in § 2106 
must be exercised consistent with the requirements of the Federal Rules 
of Civil Procedure as interpreted by this Court. 
The dissent’s approach is not only foreclosed by authority of this Court, 
it also may present Seventh Amendment concerns.  The implication of the 
dissent’s interpretation of § 2106 is that a court of appeals would be free 
to examine the sufﬁciency of the evidence regardless of whether the appel­
lant had ﬁled a Rule 50(a) motion in the district court and, in the event 
the appellant had ﬁled a Rule 50(a) motion, regardless of whether the 
district court had ever ruled on that motion.  The former is squarely fore­
closed by Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co.,  228 U. S. 364 (1913), and the 
latter is inconsistent with this Court’s explanation of the requirements of 
the Seventh Amendment in Baltimore & Carolina Line, Inc. v. Redman, 
295 U. S. 654, 658 (1935) (explaining that “under the pertinent rules of the 
common law the court of appeals could set aside the verdict for error of 
law, such as the trial court’s ruling respecting the sufﬁciency of the evi­
dence, and direct a new trial, but could not itself determine the issues of 
fact and direct a judgment for the defendant, for this would cut off the 
plaintiff’s unwaived right to have the issues of fact determined by a jury” 
(emphasis added)).  Indeed, Rule 50 was drafted with such concerns in 
mind.  See 9A C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure 
§ 2522, pp. 244–246 (2d ed. 1995) (hereinafter Federal Practice). 
5 While the precise nature of the new trial motion at issue in Cone is 
difﬁcult to ascertain from this Court’s description of that motion, the 
Court of Appeals opinion in that case conﬁrms that the movant had prop­
erly objected to the admission of certain evidence, and then moved post­
verdict “for a new trial [on the basis of the inadmissible evidence] and 
later renewed this motion upon the basis of newly-discovered evidence.” 
West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co. v. Cone, 153 F. 2d 576, 580 (CA4 1946). 
This Court did not disturb the Court of Appeals’ holding that formed the 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
404  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
respondents . . . moved for a new trial on the ground . . . that 
there were many contested issues of fact”).  Indeed, John­
son concluded that respondent was only entitled to a new 
trial by virtue of its motion for such “within the time re­
quired by Rule 50(b).”  344 U. S., at 54.  Accordingly, these 
outcomes merely underscore our holding today—a party is 
not entitled to pursue a new trial on appeal unless that party 
makes  an  appropriate  postverdict  motion  in  the  district 
court. 
Our  determination  that  respondent’s  failure  to  comply 
with Rule 50(b) forecloses its challenge to the sufﬁciency of 
the evidence is further validated by the purported basis of 
respondent’s appeal, namely, the District Court’s denial of 
respondent’s  preverdict  Rule  50(a)  motion.  As  an  initial 
matter, Cone, Globe Liquor, and Johnson unequivocally es­
tablish that the precise subject matter of a party’s Rule 50(a) 
motion—namely, its entitlement to judgment as a matter of 
law—cannot be appealed unless that motion is renewed pur­
suant to Rule 50(b).  Here, respondent does not seek to pur­
sue on appeal the precise claim it raised in its Rule 50(a) 
motion before the District Court—namely, its entitlement to 
judgment as a matter of law.  Rather, it seeks a new trial 
based on the legal insufﬁciency of the evidence.  But if, as 
in Cone, Globe Liquor, and Johnson, a litigant that has failed 
to ﬁle a Rule 50(b) motion is foreclosed from seeking the 
relief it sought in its Rule 50(a) motion—i. e., the entry of 
judgment—then surely respondent is foreclosed from seek­
ing a new trial, relief it did not and could not seek in its 
preverdict motion.  In short, respondent never sought a new 
trial before the District Court, and thus forfeited its right to 
do so on appeal.  Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414, 444 
(1944)  (“No  procedural  principle  is  more  familiar  to  this 
Court than that a . . .  right may be forfeited . . . by the 
basis of the movant’s entitlement to a new trial, namely, “the Circuit Court 
of Appeals’ holding that there was prejudicial error in the admission of 
evidence.”  330 U. S., at 215. 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  405 
Opinion of the Court 
failure to make timely assertion of the right before a tribunal 
having jurisdiction to determine it”). 
The text of Rule 50(b) conﬁrms that respondent’s prever­
dict Rule 50(a) motion did not present the District Court 
with the option of ordering a new trial.  That text provides 
that a district court may only order a new trial on the basis 
of issues raised in a preverdict Rule 50(a) motion when “rul­
ing on a renewed motion” under Rule 50(b).  Accordingly, 
even if the District Court was inclined to grant a new trial 
on the basis of arguments raised in respondent’s preverdict 
motion, it was without the power to do so under Rule 50(b) 
absent a postverdict motion pursuant to that Rule.  Conse­
quently, the Court of Appeals was similarly powerless. 
Similarly, the text and application of Rule 50(a) support 
our determination that respondent may not challenge the 
sufﬁciency of the evidence on appeal on the basis of the Dis­
trict Court’s denial of its Rule 50(a) motion.  The Rule pro­
vides that “the court may determine” that “there is no le­
gally sufﬁcient evidentiary basis for a reasonable jury to ﬁnd 
for [a] party on [a given] issue,” and “may grant a motion for 
judgment as a matter of law against that party . . . .”  (Em­
phasis added.)  Thus, while a district court is permitted to 
enter judgment as a matter of law when it concludes that 
the evidence is legally insufﬁcient, it is not required to do so. 
To the contrary, the district courts are, if anything, encour­
aged to submit the case to the jury, rather than granting 
such motions.  As Wright and Miller explain: 
“Even at the close of all the evidence it may be desir­
able to refrain from granting a motion for judgment as 
a matter of law despite the fact that it would be possible 
for the district court to do so.  If judgment as a matter 
of law is granted and the appellate court holds that the 
evidence in fact was sufﬁcient to go to the jury, an entire 
new trial must be had.  If, on the other hand, the trial 
court submits the case to the jury, though it thinks the 
evidence insufﬁcient, ﬁnal determination of the case is 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
406  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Opinion of the Court 
expedited greatly.  If the jury agrees with the court’s 
appraisal of the evidence, and returns a verdict for the 
party who moved for judgment as a matter of law, the 
case is at an end.  If the jury brings in a different ver­
dict, the trial court can grant a renewed motion for judg­
ment as a matter of law.  Then if the appellate court 
holds that the trial court was in error in its appraisal of 
the evidence, it can reverse and order judgment on the 
verdict of the jury, without any need for a new trial. 
For this reason the appellate courts repeatedly have said 
that it usually is desirable to take a verdict, and then 
pass on the sufﬁciency of the evidence on a post-verdict 
motion.”  9A Federal Practice § 2533, at 319 (footnote 
omitted). 
Thus, the District Court’s denial of respondent’s preverdict 
motion cannot form the basis of respondent’s appeal, because 
the denial of that motion was not error.  It was merely an 
exercise of the District Court’s discretion, in accordance with 
the text of the Rule and the accepted practice of permitting 
the jury to make an initial judgment about the sufﬁciency of 
the evidence.  The only error here was counsel’s failure to 
ﬁle a postverdict motion pursuant to Rule 50(b).6 
6 Respondent claims that its failure to renew its Rule 50(a) motion was 
in reliance on the Tenth Circuit’s determination that it could order a new 
trial in the absence of a Rule 50(b) motion.  But respondent cannot credi­
bly maintain that it wanted the Court of Appeals to order a new trial as 
opposed to entering judgment.  And, as the Tenth Circuit has recognized, 
respondent could not obtain the entry of judgment unless it complied with 
Rule 50(b).  Cummings v. General Motors Corp., 365 F. 3d 944, 951 (2004). 
Respondent therefore had every incentive to comply with that Rule’s re­
quirements.  Accordingly, we reject its contention that our application of 
Rule 50(b) to the instant case is impermissibly retroactive.  See also 
Harper v. Virginia Dept. of Taxation, 509 U. S. 86, 97 (1993) (“[W]e can 
scarcely permit the substantive law to shift and spring according to the 
particular equities of individual parties’ claims of actual reliance on an old 
rule and of harm from a retroactive application of the new rule” (internal 
quotation marks and brackets omitted)). 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  407 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
* * * 
For the foregoing reasons, we hold that since respondent 
failed to renew its preverdict motion as speciﬁed in Rule 
50(b), there was no basis for review of respondent’s sufﬁ­
ciency of the evidence challenge in the Court of Appeals. 
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.7 
It is so ordered. 
Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Kennedy joins, 
dissenting. 
Murphy’s law applies to trial lawyers as well as pilots. 
Even an expert will occasionally blunder.  For that reason 
Congress has preserved the federal appeals courts’ power to 
correct plain error, even though trial counsel’s omission will 
ordinarily give rise to a binding waiver.  This is not a case, 
in my view, in which the authority of the appellate court is 
limited by an explicit statute or controlling rule.  The spirit 
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure favors preservation 
of a court’s power to avoid manifestly unjust results in ex­
ceptional cases.  See Johnson v. New York, N. H. & H. R. 
Co.,  344  U. S.  48,  62  (1952)  (Frankfurter,  J.,  dissenting) 
(“ ‘Procedure is the means; full, equal and exact enforcement 
of  substantive  law  is  the  end’ ”  (quoting  Pound,  The  Eti­
quette  of  Justice,  3  Proceedings  Neb.  St.  Bar  Assn.  231 
(1909))).  Moreover,  we  have  an  overriding  duty  to  obey 
statutory commands that unambiguously express the intent 
of Congress even in areas such as procedure in which we 
may have special expertise. 
Today, relying primarily on a case decided in March 1947, 
Cone v. West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., 330 U. S. 212, and 
a  case  decided  in  January  1948,  Globe  Liquor  Co.  v.  San 
7 We reject respondent’s contention that it is entitled to a remand for 
reconsideration in light of Phillips v. AWH Corp., 415 F. 3d 1303 (CA Fed. 
2005).  The Federal Circuit has already denied respondent’s petition for 
rehearing raising this issue. 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
408  UNITHERM FOOD SYSTEMS, INC. v. 
SWIFT-ECKRICH, INC. 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
Roman, 332 U. S. 571, the Court holds that the Court of Ap­
peals was “powerless” to review the sufﬁciency of the evi­
dence supporting the verdict in petitioner’s favor because 
respondent failed to ﬁle proper postverdict motions pursuant 
to Rules 50(b) and 59 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 
in the trial court.  Ante, at 405.  The majority’s holding is 
inconsistent with a statute enacted just months after Globe 
Liquor was decided.  That statute, which remains in effect 
today, provides: 
“The Supreme Court or any other court of appellate 
jurisdiction may afﬁrm, modify, vacate, set aside or re­
verse any judgment, decree, or order of a court lawfully 
brought before it for review, and may remand the cause 
and direct the entry of such appropriate judgment, de­
cree, or order, or require such further proceedings to 
be had as may be just under the circumstances.”  28 
U. S. C. § 2106. 
Nothing in Rule 50(b) limits this statutory grant of power 
to appellate courts; while a party’s failure to make a Rule 
50(b) motion precludes the district court from directing a 
verdict in that party’s favor, the Rule does not purport to 
strip the courts of appeals of the authority to review district 
court judgments or to order such relief as “may be just under 
the circumstances.”  Nor do general principles of waiver or 
forfeiture have that effect.  Cf. ante, at 404–405.  It is well 
settled that a litigant’s waiver or forfeiture of an argument 
does not, in the absence of a contrary statutory command, 
preclude the courts of appeals from considering those argu­
ments.  See Singleton v.  Wulff,  428 U. S. 106, 121 (1976). 
Arguments raised for the ﬁrst time on appeal may be enter­
tained,  for  example,  if  their  consideration  would  prevent 
manifest injustice.  Ibid.* 
*The Court suggests that the Seventh Amendment limits appellate 
courts’ power to review judgments under 28 U. S. C. § 2106.  See ante, 
at 402–403, n. 4.  I disagree with the Court’s analysis in two respects. 

NEW PAGE

546US2 Unit:$U24 [08-27-0813:12:22] PAGES PGT:OPIN
Cite as: 546 U. S. 394 (2006)  409 
Stevens, J., dissenting 
For the reasons articulated by the Court in Cone, 330 U. S., 
at 216, it may be unfair or even an abuse of discretion for a 
court of appeals to direct a verdict in favor of the party that 
lost below if that party failed to make a timely Rule 50(b) 
motion.  Likewise, it may not be “just under the circum­
stances” for a court of appeals to order a new trial in the 
absence of a proper Rule 59 motion.  Finally, a court of ap­
peals has discretion to rebuff, on grounds of waiver or forfeit­
ure, a challenge to the sufﬁciency of the evidence absent a 
proper Rule 50(b) or Rule 59 motion made in the district 
court.  None of the foregoing propositions rests, however, 
on a determination that the courts of appeals lack “power” 
to review the sufﬁciency of the evidence and order appro­
priate relief under these circumstances, and I can divine no 
basis for that determination. 
I respectfully dissent. 
First, although the right to trial by jury might be implicated if no Rule 
50(a) motion had been made, such a motion was made in this case.  The 
Rule 50(a) motion triggered the automatic reservation of “legal questions,” 
Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 50(b), and that reservation, in turn, averted any Sev­
enth Amendment problem, see Baltimore & Carolina Line, Inc. v. Red­
man, 295 U. S. 654 (1935).  Second, the Seventh Amendment imposes no 
greater restriction on appellate courts than it does on district courts in 
these circumstances; “[a]s far as the Seventh Amendment’s right to jury 
trial is concerned, there is no greater restriction on the province of the 
jury when an appellate court enters judgment n. o. v. than when a trial 
court does.”  Neely v. Martin K. Eby Constr. Co., 386 U. S. 317, 322 (1967). 

NEW PAGE