

170 F. H OFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A . 
Opinion of the Court 
for Petitioners 13; se also Den Norske, 241 F. 3d, at 429 
("[W]e have found no case in which jurisdiction was found in 
a c ase like this-—where a f oreign plaintif is injured in a f or-
eign market with no injuries arising from the anticompeti-
tive efect on a U United States market"). And respondents 
themselves aparently conceded as much at a M ay 23, 201, 
hearing before the District Court below. 201 WL 761360, 
at *4. .
Nevertheles, respondents now have caled to our aten-
tion six cases, thre decided by this Court and thre decided 
by lower courts. In the first thre cases the defendants 
included both American companies and foreign companies
included both American companies and foreign companies 
jointly engaged in anticompetitive behavior having both for-
eign and domestic efects. Se Timken Roler Bearing Co. 
v. United States, 341 U. S. 593, 595 (1951 1) (agrements among 
Amereirican, British, and French corporations to eliminate 
competition in the manufacture and sale of antifriction bear-
ings in world, including United States, markets); United 
States v. National Lead Co., 32 U. S. 319, 325-328 (1947) 
(international cartels with American and foreign members, 
restraining international comerce, including United States 
comerce, in titataniuium pigments); United States v. American 
Tobaco Co., 21 U. S. 106, 171-172 (191) (American tobaco 
corporations agred in England with British company to di-
vide world markets). In al thre cases the plaintif sought 
relief, including relief that might have helped to protect 
those injured abroad. 
In al thre cases, however, the plaintif was the Govern-
In al thre cases, however, the plaintif was the Govern-
ment of the United States. A Government plaintif, unlike 
a p private plaintif, must sek to obtain the relief necesary 
to protect the public from further anticompetitive conduct 
and to redres anticompetitive harm. And a Government 
plaintif has legal authority broad enough to alow it to cary 
out this mision. 15 U. S. C. § 2 5; se also, e. g., United 
States v. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., 36 U. S. 316, 34 
(1961) ("[I]t is wel setled that once the Government has 

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 171 
Opinion of the Court 
sucesfuly borne the considerable burden of establishing a 
violation of law, al doubts as to the remedy are to be re-
solved in its favor"). Private plaintifs, by way of contrast, 
are far les likely to be able to secure broad relief. Se Calil-i-
fornia v. American Stores Co., 495 U. S. 271, 295 (190) ("Our 
conclusion that a d istrict court has the power to order divest-
iture in apropriate cases brought [by private plaintifs] does 
not, of course, mean that such power should be exercised in 
every situation in which the Government would be entitled 
to such relief"); 2 P . Areda, H. Hovenkamp, & R. Blair, Anti-
trust Law ¶ 303d-303e, p. 40-45 (2d ed. 20) (distinguish-
ing betwen private and government suits in terms of avail-
ability, public interest motitives, and remedial scope); Grifin, 
Extrtrateritoriality in U. S. and EU Antititrust Enforcement, 
67 Antitrust L. J. 159, 194 (19) ("[P]rivate plaintifs often 
are unwililing to exercise the degre of self-restraint and con-
sideration of foreign governmental sensibilities generaly ex-
ercised by the U. S. Governmenetn"t"). This diference means 
that the Government's ability, in these thre cases, to obtain 
relief helpful to those injured abroad tels us litle or nothing 
about whether this Court would have awarded similar relief 
at the request of private plaintifs. 
Neither did the Court focus explicitly in its opinions on a 
claim that the remedies sought to cure only independently 
caused foreign harm. Thus the thre cases tel us even les 
about whether this Court then thought that foreign private 
plaintifs could have obtained foreign relief based solely upon 
such independently caused foreign injury. 
Respondents also refer to thre lower court cases brought 
by private plaintifs. In the first, Industria Siciliana As-
falti, Bitumi, S. p. A. v. Exon Research & Enginering Co.,., 
No. 75 Civ. 5828-CSH, 197 WL 1353 (SDNY, Jan. 18, 197), 
a D istrict Court permited an Italian firm to proced against 
an American firm with a Sherman Act claim based upon a 
purely foreign injury, i. e., an injury sufered in Italy. The 
court made clear, however, that the foreign injury was "inex-
court made clear, however, that the foreign injury was "inex-

NEW PAGE

172 F. H OFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A . 
Opinion of the Court 
tricably bound up with . domesetstic restraints of trade," 
and that the plaintif "was injured . . by reason of an al-
leged restraint t of our domesetstic trade," id., at *1, *12 (em-
phasis aded), i. e., the foreign injury was dependent upon, 
not independent of, d omestic harm. Se Part VI, infra. .
In the second case, Domininicus Americanad Bohio v. 
Gulf & Western Industsrtireies,s , Inc., 473 F. Sup. 680 (SDNY 
1979), a D District Court permited Dominican and American 
firms to proced against a c ompeting Amererican firm and the 
Dominican Tourist Information Center with a S Sherman Act 
claim based upon injury aparently sufered in the Dominini-
can Republilic. The court, in finding the Sherman Act apli-
cable, weighed several diferent factors, including the partic-
ipation of American firms in the unlawful conduct, the partly 
domestic nature of both conduct and harm (to Amererican tour-
ists, a k ind of "export"), and the fact that the domestic harm 
depended in part upon the foreign injury. Id., at 68. The* 
court did not separately analyze the legal problem before it 
in terms of independently caused foreign injury. Its opinion 
simply does not discus the mater. It consequently canot 
be taken as significant suport for aplication of the Sher-
man Act here. 
The third case, Hunt v. Mobil Oil Corp., 50 F. 2d 68, 72 
(CA2 197), involved a claim by Hunt, an independent oil 
producer with reserves in Libya, that other major oil produc-
ers in Libya and the Persian Gulf (the "seven majors") had 
conspired in New York and elsewhere to make it more difi-
cult for Hunt to reach agrement with the Libyan Govern-
ment on production terms and thereby eliminate him as a 
compepteititor. The case can be sen as involving a p rimarily 
foreign conspiracy designed to bring about foreign injury in 
Libya. But, as in Dominincicus,s, the court nowhere considered 
the problem of independently caused foreign harm. Rather, 
the case was about the "act of state" doctrine, and the sole 
discusion of Sherman Act aplicability-—one brief para-
graph—-refers to other mataters. 50 F. 2d, at 72, and n. 2. 

