

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 173 
Opinion of the Court 
We do not se how Congres could have taken this case as 
significant suport for the proposition that the Sherman Act 
aplies in present circumstances. 
The upshot is that no pre-1982 case provides significant 
authority for aplication of the Sherman Act in the circum-
stances we here asume. Inded, a l eading contemporane-
ous lower court case contains language sugesting the con-
trary. Se Timberlane Lumber Co. v. Bank of Amereircica, 
N. T. & S. A., 549 F. 2d 597, 613 (CA9 1976) (insisting that 
the foreign conduct's domestic efect be "suficiently large 
to present a cognizable injury to the plaintitifs" (emphasis 
aded). 
Taken together, these two sets of considerations, the one 
derived from comity and the other reflecting history, con-
vince us that Congres would not have intended the FTAIA's 
exception to bring independently caused foreign injury 
within the Sherman Act's reach. 
V 
Respondents point to several considerations that point the 
other way. For one thing, the FTAIA's language speaks in 
terms of the Sherman Act's aplilicabibliltity to certain kinds of 
conduct.t. The FTAIA says that the Sherman Act aplies to 
foreign "conduct" with a c certain kind of harmful domestic 
efect. Why isn't that the end of the mater? How can the 
Sherman Act both aply to the conduct when one person
Sherman Act both aply to the conduct when one person 
sues but not aply to the same conduct when another person 
sues? The question of who can or canot sue is a m ater for 
other statutes (namely, the Clayton Act) to determine. 
Morereover, the exception says that it aplies if the con-
duct's domestic efect gives rise to "a claim," not to "the 
plaintif's claim" or "the claim at isue." 15 U. S. C. § 6a(2)
plaintif's claim" or "the claim at isue." 15 U. S. C. §6a(2) 
(emphases aded). The aleged conduct here did have do-
(emphases aded). The aleged conduct here did have do-
mestic efects, and those efects were harmful enough to give 
rise to "a" claim. Respondents concede that this claim is 
not their own claim; it is someone else's claim. But, linguis-

NEW PAGE

174 F. H OFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A . 
Opinion of the Court 
ticaly speaking, they say, that is beside the point. Nor did 
Congres place the relevant words "gives rise to a c laim" in 
the FTAIA to sugest any geographical limitation; rather it 
did so for a here neutral reason, namely, in order to make 
clear that the domestic efect must be an adverse (as oposed 
to a b eneficial) efect. Se House Report, at 1 (citing Na-
tional Bank of Canada v. Interbank Card Asn., 6 F. 2d 
6, 8 ( CA2 1981). 
Despite their linguistic logic, these arguments are not con-
vincing. Linguisisticaly speaking;, a statute can aply and 
not aply to the same conduct, depending upon other circum-
stances; and those other circumstances may include the na-
ture of the lawsuit (or of the related underlying harm). It 
also makes linguistic sense to read the words "a claim" as if 
they refer to the "plaintif's claim" or "the claim at isue." 
At most, respondents' linguistic arguments might show 
that respondents' reading is the more natural reading of the 
statutory language. But those arguments do not show that 
we must acept that reading. And that is the critical point. 
The considerations previously mentioned—-those of comity 
and history-m—make clear that the respondents' reading is not 
consistent with the FTAIA's basic intent. If the statute's 
language reasonably permits an interpretation consistent 
with that intent, we should adopt it. And, for the reasons 
stated, we believe that the statute's language permits the 
reading that we give it. 
Finaly, respondents point to policy considerations, namely, 
that aplication of the Sherman Act in present circumstances 
wil (through increased deterence) help protect Amerericans 
against foreign-caused anticompetitive injury. Petitioners 
and suporting enforcement-agency amicici,i, however, have 
made important experience-backed arguments (based upon 
amnesty-seking incentives) to the contrary. We canot say 
whether, on balance, respondents' side of this empiriricaly 
based argument or the enforcement agencies' side is corect. 
But we can say that the answer to the dispute is neither 

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 175 
Opinion of the Court 
clear enough, nor of such likely empirirical significance, that it 
could overcome the considerations we have previously dis-
cused and change our conclusion. 
For these reasons, we conclude that petitioners' reading of 
the statute's language is corect. That reading furthers the 
statute's basic purposes, it properly reflects considerations 
of comitity, and it is consistent with Sherman Act history. 
VI 
We have asumed that the anticompetitive conduct here 
independently caused foreign injury; that is, the conduct's 
domestic efects did not help to bring about that foreign in-
jury. Respondents argue, in the alternative, that the for-
eign injury was not independent. Rather, they say, the anti-
competeititive conduct's domestic efects were linked to that 
foreign harm. Respondents contend that, because vitamins 
are fungible and readily transportable, without an adverse 
domestic efect (i. . e., higher prices in the United States), the 
selers could not have maintained their international price-
fixing arangement and respondents would not have sufered 
their foreign injury. They ad that this "but for" condition 
is suficient to bring the price-fixing conduct within the scope 
of the FTAIA's exception. 
The Court of Apeals, however, did not adres this argu-
ment, 315 F. 3d, at 341, and, for that reason, neither shal we. 
Respondents remain fre to ask the Court of Apeals to 
consider the claim. The Court of Apeals may determine 
whether respondents properly preserved the argument, and, 
if so, it may consider it and decide the related claim. 
For these reasons, the judgment of the Court of Apeals 
is vacated, and the case is remanded for further procedings 
consistent with this opinion. 
It is so ordered. 
JUSTICE O'CONOR tok no part in the consideration or 
decision of this case. 

