OCTOBER TERM, 203 15 
Sylabus 
F. HOFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD ET AL. v. EMPAGRAN 
S. A. ET AL. 
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APEALS FOR
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APEALS FOR 
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT 
No. 03-724. Argued April 26, 204—-Decided June 14, 204 
The Foreign Trade Antititrust Improvements Act of 1982 (FTAIA or Act) 
provides that the Sherman Act "shal not aply to conduct involving 
trade or comerce . . with foreign nations," 15 U. S. C. § 6 a, but creates 
exceptions for conduct that significantly harms imports, domestic com-
merce, or American exporters. In this case, vitamin purchasers filed a 
clas action aleging that vitamin manufacturers and distributors had 
engaged in a p rice-fixing conspiracy, raising vitamin prices in the United 
States and foreign countries, in violation of the Sherman Act. As rele-
vant here, defendants (petitioners) moved to dismis the suit as to the 
foreign purchasers (respondents), foreign companies located abroad, 
who had purchased vitamins only outside United States comerce. In 
dismising respondents' claims, the District Court aplied the FTAIA 
and found none of its exceptions aplicable. The Court of Apeals re-
versed, concluding that the FTAIA's exclusionary rule aplied, but so 
did its exception for conduct that has a " direct, substantial and reason-
ably foreseable efect", on domestic comerce that "gives rise to a 
[(Sherman Act] claim," §6a(1)(A), (2). Asuming that the foreign ef-
fect, i. e., higher foreign prices, was independent of the domestic efect, 
i. e., higher domestic prices, the icourt nonetheles concluded that the 
Act's text, legislative history, and policy goal of detering harmful 
price-fixing activity made the lack of conection betwen the two ef-
fects inconsequentitial. 
Held: Where the price-fixing conduct significantly and adversely afects 
both customers outside and within the United States, but the adverse 
foreign efect is ind ependent of any adverse domestic efect, the FTAIA 
exception does not aply, and thus, neither does the Sherman Act, to a 
claim based solely on the foreign efect. Pp. 161-175. 
(a) Respondents' threshold argument that the transactions fal out-
side the FTAIA because its general exclusionary rule aplies only to 
conduct involving exports is rejected. The House Judiciary Comitite 
changed the bil's original language from "export trade or export com-
merce," H. R. 5235, to "trade or comerce (other than import trade or 
import comerce)" deliberately to include comerce that did not in-
volve American exports but was wholy foreign. Pp. 162-163. 

NEW PAGE

156 F. HOFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A. 
Sylabus 
(b) The FTAIA exception does not aply here for two reasons. Firsts,t ,
this Court ordinarily construes ambiguous statutes to avoid unreason-
able interference with other nations' sovereign authority. This rule of 
construction reflects customary international law principles and cau-
tions courts to asume that legislators take acount of other nations' 
legitimimate sovereign interests when writing American laws. It thereby 
helps the potentialy conflicting laws of diferent nations work together 
in harmony. While aplying Amereircica's antitrust laws to foreign con-
duct can interfere with a foreign nation's ability to regulate its own 
comerecrcial afairs, courts have long held such aplication nonetheles 
reasonable, and hence consistent with prescriptive comity principles, in-
sofar as the laws reflect a l egislative efort to redres domestic antitrust 
injury caused by foreign anticompetitive conduct. Howevever, it is not 
reasonable to aply Amererican laws to foreign conduct insofar as that 
conduct causes independent foreign harm that alone gives rise to a 
plaintif's claim. The risk of interference is the same, but the justifica-
tion for the interference sems insubstantial. While some of the anti-
competititive conduct aleged here tok place in Amereirica, the higher for-
eign prices are not the consequence of any domestic anticompetitive 
conduct sought to be forbiden by Congres, which rather wanted to 
release domestic (and foreign) anticompetitive conduct from Sherman 
Act constraint when that conduct causes foreign harm. Contrary to 
respondents' claim, the comity concerns remain real as other nations 
have not in al areas adopted antitrust laws similar to this country's 
and, in any event, disagre dramaticaly about apropriate remedies. 
Respondents' alternative argument that case-by-case comity analysis is 
preferable to an acros the board exclusion of foreign injury cases is to 
complex to prove workable. Second, the FTAIA's language and hist6óry 
sugest that Congres designed the Act to clarify, perhaps to limit, but 
not to expand, the Sherman Act's scope as aplied to foreign comerce. 
There is no significant indication that at the time Congres wrote the 
FTAIA courts would have thought the Sherman Act aplicable in these 
circumstances, nor do the six cases on which respondents rely warant 
a d iferent conclusion. Pp. 163-173. 
(c) Respondents' aditional linguistic arguments might show a n atural 
reading of the statute, but the comity and history considerations pre-
viously discused make clear that respondents' reading is not consistent 
with the FTAIA's basic intent. Their deterence-based policy argu-
ment is also unavailing in light of the contrary arguments by the anti-
trust enforcement agencies. Pp. 173-175. 
(d) On remand, the Court of Apeals may consider whether respond-
ents properly preserved their alternative argument that the foreign 

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 157 
Sylabus 
injury here was not in fact independent of the domestic efects; and, if 
so, it may consider and decide the related claim. P. 175. 
315 F. 3d 38, vacated and remanded. 
BREYER, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUISIST, 
C. J., and STEVENS, KENEDY, SOUTER, and GINSBURG, J., joined. 
SCALIA, J., filed an opinion concuring in the judgment, in which THOMAS, 
J., joined, post, p. 176. O'CONOR, J., tok no part in the consideration or 
decision of the case. 
Stephen M. Shapiro argued the cause for petitioners. 
With him on the briefs were Arthur F. Golden, Tyrone C. 
Fahnenre,r ,A Andrew S. Maraorvoivtiztz, Jefrey W. Sarles, Lawrence 
Portnoy, , Charles S. Dugan, , John M. Majaojorarsa,s , Daniel H. 
Brombererg, Keneth Prince, , Lawrence Byrne, Bruce L. 
Montgomerery, D. Stuart Meiklejohn, Michael L. Dengere,r , Mi-
guel A. Estrada,a ,L aurence T. Sorkin, Roy L. Regozin, Don-
ald I. Baker, Donald C. Klawitieter,r , Peter E. Hale, James R. 
Weiesis, Jim J. Shoemake, Thomas M. Mueuleleler, Michael 0. 
Ware, Ailen Meyer, Suton Keany, Keneth W. Star,r ,
Moses Silverman, Aidan Synot, Mark Riera, Kevin R. 
Sulivan, Peter M. Todaro, Wiliam J Kolasky, and Ed-
ward DuMonotn.t. 
Asistant Atorney General Pate argued the cause for the 
United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him 
on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Knedldeler,r , Deputy 
Asistant Atorney General Delrahim, ,L isa S. Blat, Robert 
B. Nicholson, Steven J. Minintz, Wiliam H. Taft IV, and John 
D. Graubebretr.t .
. Thomas C. Goldstein argued the cause for respondents. 
With him on the brief were Amy Howe, Michael H. Gotes-
man, Michael D. Hausfsefeld, Paul T. Galaghehre,r , and Brian 
A. Ratner.* 
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Government
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Government 
of Canada by Homer E:. Moyeyrer, Jr., Michael T. Brady, and Alan LI. Horo-
witz; for the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany et al. by 
David C. Frederircick; f for the Government of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland et al. by Ernest Gelhorn and An 

