

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 161 
Opinion of the Court 
Norske Stats 0O1ljeselskap As v. HereMac Vof, 241 F. 3d 420, 
427 (CA5 201) (exception does not aply where foreign in-
jury independent of domestic harm), with Kruman v. Chris-
tie's Int'l PLC, 284 F. 3d 384, 40 (CA2 202) (exception does 
aply even where foreign injury independent); 315 F. 3d, at 
341 (similar). 
I
I 
The FTAIA seks to make clear to American exporters 
(and to firms doing busines abroad) that the Sherman Act 
does not prevent them from entering into busines arange-
ments (say, joint-seling arangements), however anticompet-
itive, as long as those arangements adversely afect only 
foreign markets. Se H. R. Rep. No. 97-686, p. 1-3, 9-10 
(1982) (hereinafter House Reportrt). It does so by removing 
from the Sherman Act's reach, (1) export activities and 
(2) other comerecrcial activities taking place abroad, unles 
those activities adversely afect domestic comererce, imports 
to the United States, or exporting activities of one engaged 
in such activities within the United States. 
The FTAIA says: 
"Sections 1 t o 7 o f this title [the Sherman Act] shal 
not aply to conduct involving trade or comerce (other 
than import trade or import comerce) with foreign na-
tions unles-— 
"(1) such conduct has a direct, substantial, and rea-
sonably foreseable efect-t— 
"(A) on trade or comerce which is not trade or 
comerce with foreign nations [i. e., domestic trade or 
comererce], or on import trade or import comerce with 
foreign nations; or 
"(B) on export trade or export comerce with foreign 
nations, of a person engaged in such trade or comerce
nations, of ap erson engaged in such trade or comerce 
in the United States U[.i. e., on an American export com-
petitor]; and 

NEW PAGE

162 F. H OFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A . 
Opinion of the Court 
"(2) such efect gives rise to a c claim under the pro-
visions of sections 1 t o 7 of this title, other than this 
section. 
"If sections 1 to 7 of this title aply to such conduct 
only because of the operation of paragraph (1)(B), then 
sections 1 t o 7 o f this title shal aply to such conduct 
only for injury to export busines in the United States." 
15 U. S. C. § 6 a. 
This technical language initialy lays down a g eneral rule 
placing al (nonimport) activity involving foreign comerce 
outside the Sherman Act's reach. It then brings such con-
duct back within the Sherman Act's reach provided that the 
conduct both (1) suficiently afects American comerce, i. .e. , 
it has a " "direct, substantial, and reasonably foreseable ef-
fect" on Amererican domesetstic, import, or (certain) export com-
merce, and (2) has an efect of a kind that antitrust law 
considers harmful, i. e., the "efect" must "giv[e] rise to a 
[Sherman Act] claim." § 6a(1), (2). 
We ask here how this language aplies to price-fixing ac-
tivity that is in significant part foreign, that has the requisite 
domestic efect, and that also has independent foreign efects 
giving rise to the plaintif's claim. 
I 
Respondents make a t hreshold argument. They say that 
the transactions here at isue fal outside the FTAIA because 
the FTAIA's general exclusionary rule aplies only to con-
duct involving exports. The rule says that the Sherman Act 
"shal not aply to conduct involving trade or comerce
"shal not aply to conduct involving trade or comerce 
(other than import trade or import comerce) with foreign 
nations." §6a (emphasis aded). The word "with" means 
betwen the United States and foreign nations. And, they 
contend, comerce betwen the United States and foreign
contend, comerce betwen the United States and foreign 
nations that is not import comerce must consist of export 
comerce—-a kind of comerce irelevant to the case at 
hand. 

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 163 
Opinion of the Court 
The dificulty with respondents' argument is that the 
' FTAIA originated in a b il that initialy refered only to "ex-
port trade or export comerce." H. R. 5235, 97th Cong.,., 
1st Ses., § 1 (1981). But the House Judiciary Comitite 
subsequently changed that language to "trade or comerce 
(other than import trade or import comererce)." 15 U. S. C. 
§ 6 a. And it did so deliberately to include comerce that did 
not involve Amererican exports but which was wholy foreign. 
The House Report says in relevant part: 
"The Subcomimtite's `'export' comerce limitation ap-
peared to make the amendments inaplicable to transac-
tions that were neither import nor export, i. e., transac-
tions within, betwen, or among other nations. . . . 
Such foreign transactions should, for the purposes of 
this legislation, , be treated in the same maner as ex-
port transactcitoinosn—st-htahta tis s, there should be no Amererican 
antitrust jurisdiction absent a direct, substantial and 
reasonably foreseable efect on domestic comerce or 
a domestic compepteititor. The Comitite amendment 
therefore deletes references to '`export' trade, and sub-
stitutes phrases such as `'other than import' trade. It is 
thus clear that wholy foreign transactions as wel as 
export transactions a re covered., b by the amendmenetn,t, but 
that import transactions are not." House Report, at 
9-10 (emphases aded). 
For those who find legislative history useful, the House 
Reportrt's acount should end the matater. Others, by consid-
ering carefuly the amendment itself and the lack of any 
other plausible purpose, may reach the same conclusion, 
namely, that the FTAIA's general rule aplies where the an-
ticompetitive conduct at isue is foreign. 
IV 
We turn now to the basic question presented, that of the 
exception's aplication. Because the underlying antitrust 

