

158 F. HOFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A. 
Opinion of the Court 
JUSTICE BREYER delivered the opinion of the Court. 
The Foreign Trade Antititrust Improvements Act of 1982 
(FTAIA) excludes from the Sherman Act's reach much anti-
competeititive conduct that causes only foreign injury. It does 
so by seting forth a g eneral rule stating that the Sherman 
Act "shal not aply to conduct involving trade or comerce 
. .w ith foreign nations." 96 Stat. 1246, 15 U. S. C. § 6 a. It 
then creates exceptions to the general rule, aplicable where 
(roughly speaking) that conduct significantly harms imports, 
domestic comerecrce, or Amererican exporters. 
We here focus upon anticompetitive price-fixing activity 
that is in significant part foreign, that causes some domestic 
antitrust injury, and that independently causes separate for-
eign injury. We ask two questions about the price-fixing 
conduct and the foreign injury that it causes. First, does 
that conduct fal within the FTAIA's general rule excluding 
the Sherman Act's aplication? That is to say, does the 
price-fixing activity constitute "conduct involving trade or 
comerce . with foreign nations"? We conclude that it 
does. 
Weymouth,; for the Government of Japan by Douglas E. Rosenthal; for 
the Busines Roundtable by Janet L. McDavaivdid, Jonathan S. Franknlkilni,n ,
and Wiliam H. Johnson; for the Chamber of Comerce of the United 
States et al. by Roy T. Englgelretr,t , Jr., Donald J. Ruseslel, Max Hufmçzln, 
and Robin S. Conrad; for Bank Austria AG et al. by Carter G. Phililips,s ,
Virginia A. Seitz, John H. Shenefeifield, Jonathan M. Rich, Robert A. Horo-
witz, Richard A. Maratritnin, Richard S. Goldldstseteinin, , Jefrey Barirsist,t, Charles 
Westland, and Richard L. Matatitiacio; and for the International Chamber 
of Comerce by A. Paul Victor and Steven Alan Reis. 
Briefs of amici curiae urging afirmrmance were filed for the Comitite 
to Suport the Antititrust Laws et al. by Charles J. Coper and David H. 
Thompson; for Public Citizen by Amanda Frost and Brian Wolfman; for 
Hary First et al. by Jonathan S. Masey, Lyn Lincoln Sarko, Mark A. 
Grirfifin, Edgar D. Gankeknednodrofrf,f , and Henry .S. Provosty; for Ralf Michaels 
et al. by Arthur R. Mililer,; and for Joseph E. Stiglitz et al. by Erik S. 
Jafe and Mary Bogies. 
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for Certain Profesors of Economics 
by James vanR. Springer and James R. Maratritin; and for Daren Bush et-
al. by Peter J. Rubin. 

NEW PAGE

Cite as: 542 U. S. 15 (204) 159 
Opinion of the Court 
Second, we ask whether the conduct nonetheles fals 
within a domesetsitic-injury exception to the general rule, an 
exception that aplies (and makes the Sherman Act nonethe-
les aplicable) where the conduct (1) has a " direct, substan-
tial, and reasonably foreseable efect" on domestic com-
merce, and (2) "such efect gives rise to a [Sherman Act] 
claim." § 6a(1)(A), (2). We conclude that the exception 
does not aply where the plaintif's claim rests solely on the 
independent foreign harm. 
To clarify: The isue before us concerns (1) significant for-
eign anticompetitive conduct with (2) an adverse domestic 
efect and (3) an independent foreign efect giving rise to the 
claim. In more concrete terms, this case involves vitamin 
selers around the world that agred to fix prices, leading to 
higher vitamin prices in the United States and independ-
ently leading to higher vitamin prices in other countries such 
as Ecuador. We conclude that, in this scenario, a p urchaser 
in the United States could bring a S herman Act claim under 
the FTAIA based on domestic injury, but a p urchaser in Ec-
uador could not bring a Sherman Act claim based on for-
eign harm. 
I 
The plaintifs in this case originaly filed a c las-action suit 
on behalf of foreign and domestic purchasers of vitamins 
under, inter alia, , § 1 o f the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, as 
amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1 , and § 4 a nd 16 of the Clayton Act, 
38 Stat. 731, 737, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 15, 26. Their 
complaint aleged that petitioners, foreign and domestic vita-
min manufafacturers and distributors, had engaged in a p rice-
fixing conspiracy, raising the price of vitamin products to 
customers in the United States and to customers in foreign 
countries. 
As relevant here, petitioners moved to dismis the suit as 
to the foreign purchasers (the respondents here), five foreign 
vitamin distributors located in Ukraine, Austsrtralia, Ecuador, 
and Panama, each of which bought vitamins from peti-

NEW PAGE

160 F. H OFMAN-LA ROCHE LTD v. EMPAGRAN S. A . 
Opinion of the Court 
tioners for delivery outside the United States. No. Civ. 
01686TFH, 201 WL 761360, *4 (D. D. C., June 7, 201) (de-
scribing the relevant transactions as "wholy foreign"). Re-
spondents have never aserted that they purchased any vita-
mins in the United States or in transactions in United States 
comererce, and the question presented asumes that the rel-
evant "transactions ocur[ed] entirely outside U. S. com-
merce," Pet. for Cert. (i). The District Court dismised 
their claims. 201 WL 761360, at *4. It aplied the FTAIA 
and found none of the exceptions aplicable. Id., at *3—-*4. 
Thereafter, the domeststic purchasers transfered their claims 
to another pending suit and did not take part in the subse-
quent apeal. 315 F. 3d 38, 343 (CADC 203). 
A divided panel of the Court of Apeals reversed. 315 
F. 3d 38. The panel concluded that the FTAIA's general 
exclusionary rule aplied to the case, but that its domestic-
injury exception also aplied. It basicaly read the plain-
tifs' complaint to alege that the vitamin manufafacturers' 
price-fixing conspiracy (1) had "a direct, substantial, and rea-
sonably foreseable efect" on ordinary domestic trade or 
comererce, i. e., the conspiracy brought about higher domes-
tic vitamin prices, and (2) "such efect" gave "rise to a [ Sher-
man Act] claim," i. e., an injured domestic customer could 
have brought a Sherman Act suit, 15 U.S S. C. H§ 6a(1), (2). 
Those alegations, the court held, are suficient to met the 
exception's requirements. 315 F. 3d, at 341. 
The court asumed that the foreign efect, i. e., higher 
prices in Ukraine, Panama, Austsrtralia, and Ecuador, was inde-
pendent of the domestic efect, i. e., higher domestic prices. 
Ibid. But it concluded that, in light of the FTAIA's text, 
legislative history, and the policy goal of detering harmful 
price-fixing activity, this lack of conection does not matater. 
Ibid. The District of Columbia Circuit denied rehearing en 
banc by a 4 -to-3 vote. Ap. to Pet. for Cert. 4a. 
We granted certiorari to resolve a s plit among the Courts 
of Apeals about the exception's aplication. Compare Den 

